---
title: Editing Locally
menuTitle: Editing Locally
weight: 10
description: Guide for preparing to edit Gloo docs locally.
---

The Gloo docs website is generated by using Hugo along with some custom scripting. To render the site locally, you will need to have the proper software in place and a fork of the Gloo GitHub repository cloned locally.  The following guide will walk you through the basic steps of getting your local system set up properly. The guide assumes that you have a basic working knowledge of using Git and Markdown.

## Install prerequisite software

The first step in the preparation process is to install the proper software on your local system. If you are developing on Linux or macOS, the installation process should be straightforward. If you are developing on a Windows system, we recommend installing the Windows Subsystem for Linux and using the Ubuntu distribution.

You're going to need some stuff to make all this magic happen:

* Hugo - Hugo is a static site generator written in Go. You can find the [installation process](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/) for Hugo on their website.
* Go - Golang is a programming language created by Google. You can find the [installation process](https://golang.org/doc/install) for Go on their website.
* Dep - Dep is a dependency checker for Golang. It is required for the initial build of the website. You can find the [installation process](https://golang.github.io/dep/docs/installation.html) for Dep on their website.
* Git - Git is a source control management tool. It is required to clone the Gloo repository and submit changes. You can find the [installation process](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git) for Git on their website.
* Make - make is part of a standard development toolset bundled on most Linux distributions and macOS. You may need to install it using the package manager for your version of Linux. For instance, on Ubuntu you will need to run `sudo apt install build-essential`.

For each software component you should install the most recent version. This document was written and tested with the following versions on Ubuntu 18.04:

* Hugo - 0.59.1
* Go - 1.10.4
* Dep - 0.5.4
* Git - 2.17.1
* Make - 4.1

Now that you have the necessary software, it's time to get the necessary files.

---

## Get the Gloo docs

With the correct software in place, now it is time to get the docs from the Gloo GitHub repository. First you will fork the repository into your own GitHub account. Then you will clone the repository locally. Finally, you will use `make` to render the site and then test changes.

### Fork the Gloo repository to your own account

In this step you will fork the Gloo repository into your own account. This step assumes that you already have a GitHub account. More information on forking a repository can be found on [GitHub's website](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/).

* On the [Gloo repository](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo), click on the **Fork** button at the top of the screen
* Select your account as a destination for the fork

After a few moments the fork will complete and you will be taken to the page with your fork of the Gloo repository. This is the repository you will clone locally.

### Set the GOPATH variable

Before you clone the Gloo repository to your local filesystem, you should set your `GOPATH` environment variable to include the location where you will clone the repository. The way in which you set the `GOPATH` variable will depend on the operating system you are using. Directions for setting the environment variable can be found on [Golang's GitHub wiki](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/SettingGOPATH).

### Set up the folder structure

The next step is to create the target folder structure that you will clone the repository into. This is necessary for Go to find the required dependencies when you run `dep` later in the process. The folder structure should be `$GOPATH/src/github.com/solo-io/`. You can create the necessary folder structure by running the following command:

```bash
mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/solo-io
```

With the proper folder structure in place, it is time to clone your GitHub repo. Navigate to the destination folder path.

```bash
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/solo-io
```

Then run `git clone https://github.com/your-account/gloo.git` substituting `your-account` for your actual account on GitHub. You can also get the correct `.git` link by clicking on the **Clone or download** button on your fork of the Gloo repository.

You now have the repository cloned on your local filesystem, including the `docs` folder that contains all of the documentation for Gloo.

### Prepare to run a local instance of the site

The site generation process using `make` with a `Makefile` to generate the site using Hugo. The `Makefile` has Go dependencies that need to be resolved. You will use `dep` to take care of this. Navigate to the `gloo` directory and run `dep ensure` as shown below.

```bash
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/solo-io/gloo
dep ensure -v
```

And go get a cup of coffee or take a walk around the block. This is going to take anywhere from 10-15 minutes depending on your internet connection and the speed of your system.

Once the process completes, you are ready to run the site locally and start making changes.

---

## Run site locally

In the previous sections you installed the necessary tools and downloaded the content to build the site. Now it's time to get building!

## Issue a Pull Request

---