test/kube2e/README.md, before:

# Regression tests
This directory contains tests that install each of the 3 Gloo Edge flavors (`gateway`, `ingress`, and `knative`) and run
regression tests against them.

*Note: All commands should be run from the root directory of the Gloo repository*

## Setup
For these tests to run, we require the following conditions:
  - Gloo Edge Helm chart archive be present in the `_test` folder,
  - `glooctl` be built in the`_output` folder
  - kind cluster set up and loaded with the images to be installed by the helm chart

#### (Option A) - Use the CI Install Script (preferred)

[ci/deploy-to-kind-cluster.sh](`https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/ci/deploy-to-kind-cluster.sh`) gets run in CI to setup the test environment for the above requirements.
It accepts a number of environment variables, to control the creation of a kind cluster and deployment of Gloo resources to that kind cluster.

| Name                  | Default    | Description |
| ---                   |   ---      |    ---      |
| CLUSTER_NAME          | kind       | The name of the cluster that will be generated |
| CLUSTER_NODE_VERSION  | v1.22.4    | The version of the [Node Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/kindest/node/) to use for booting the cluster |
| VERSION               | 0.0.0-kind | The version used to tag Gloo images that are deployed to the cluster |
| KUBE2E_TESTS          | gateway    | Name of the test suite to be run. Options: `'gateway', 'gloo', 'ingress', 'helm', 'gloomtls', 'glooctl'` |

Example:
```bash
CLUSTER_NAME=solo-test-cluster CLUSTER_NODE_VERSION=v1.22.4 VERSION=v1.0.0-solo-test ci/deploy-to-kind-cluster.sh
```

#### (Option B) - Manually Run Make Targets

The CI install script executes a series of make targets.

Create a kind cluster: `kind create cluster --name kind`\
Build the helm chart: `VERSION=0.0.0-kind make build-test-chart`\
Build glooctl: `make glooctl`\
Load the images into the cluster: `CLUSTER_NAME=kind VERSION=0.0.0-kind make push-kind-images`


## Verify Your Setup
Before running your tests, it's worthwhile to verify that a cluster was created, and the proper images have been loaded.

```bash
kubectl get nodes
docker exec -ti <nodename> crictl images
```

You should see the list of images in the cluster, including the ones you just uploaded

#### Common Setup Errors
`Error: validation: chart.metadata.version "solo" is invalid`\
In newer versions of helm (>3.5), the version used to build the helm chart (ie the VERSION env variable), needs to respect semantic versioning. This error implies that the version provided does not.

Prepend a valid semver to avoid the error. (ie `kind` can become `0.0.0-kind`)

## Run Tests

To run the regression tests, your kubeconfig file must point to a running Kubernetes cluster.
`kubectl config current-context` should run `kind-<CLUSTER_NAME>`

#### (Option A) - Use the Make Target (preferred)

Use the same command that CI relies on:
```bash
KUBE2E_TESTS=<test-to-run> make run-ci-regression-tests
```

#### (Option B) - Use Ginkgo Directly

The make target just runs ginkgo with a set of useful flags. If you want to control the flags that are provided, you can run:
```bash
KUBE2E_TESTS=<test-to-run> ginkgo -r <other-flags>
```

#### Test Environment Variables
The below table contains the environment variables that can be used to configure the test execution.

| Name              | Default   | Description |
| ---               |   ---     |    ---      |
| KUBE2E_TESTS      | gateway   | Name of the test suite to be run. Options: `'gateway', 'gloo', 'ingress', 'helm', 'gloomtls', 'glooctl'` |
| DEBUG             | 0         | Set to 1 for debug log output |
| WAIT_ON_FAIL      | 0         | Set to 1 to prevent Ginkgo from cleaning up the Gloo Edge installation in case of failure. Useful to exec into inspect resources created by the test. A command to resume the test run (and thus clean up resources) will be logged to the output.
| TEAR_DOWN         | false     | Set to true to uninstall Gloo after the test suite completes |

#### Common Test Errors
`getting Helm chart version: expected a single entry with name [gloo], found: 5`\
The test helm charts are written to the `_test` directory, with the `index.yaml` file containing references to all available charts. The tests require that this file contain only 1 entry. Delete the other entries manually, or run `make clean` to delete this folder entirely, and then re-build the test helm chart.

Commit message:

Clarify Gateway Translation, xDS  and e2e tests (#6504)
* Part 1: introduce predicate, improve some comments around translation

* more comments around translation

* add comments around testing

* small cleanup

* function cleanup

* cleanup mock function

* pass writeNamesapce properly

* pass writeNamesapce properly

* gofmt

* update readme

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Bernie Birnbaum <bewebi@earthlink.net>

* Update projects/gloo/pkg/xds/README.md

Co-authored-by: Jacob Cukjati <jakecukjati@gmail.com>

* codegen

Co-authored-by: soloio-bulldozer[bot] <48420018+soloio-bulldozer[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Bernie Birnbaum <bewebi@earthlink.net>
Co-authored-by: Jacob Cukjati <jakecukjati@gmail.com>

test/kube2e/README.md, after:

# Kubernetes End-to-End tests
This directory contains tests that install each of the 3 Gloo Edge flavors (`gateway`, `ingress`, and `knative`) in a Kubernetes cluster, and run
end-to-end tests against them.

*Note: All commands should be run from the root directory of the Gloo repository*

## Background
Kubernetes may be relied on for scheduling, persistence or security. These tests validate that Gloo Edge can successfully operate within a Kubernetes cluster.

### How do the tests work?
1. Install Gloo Edge in Kubernetes cluster [using Helm](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/1f457f4ef5f32aedabc58ef164aeea92acbf481e/test/kube2e/gateway/gateway_suite_test.go#L84)
1. Apply Gloo resources using Kubernetes resource clients
1. Execute requests against the Envoy proxy and confirm the expected response. This validates that the Gloo resources have been picked up by the controllers, were been translated correctly into Envoy configuration, the configuration was sent to the Envoy proxy, and the proxy behaves appropriately.

## CI
These tests are run by a [GitHub action](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/.github/workflows/regression-tests.yaml) as part of our CI pipeline.

If a test fails, you can retry it from a [browser window](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/re-running-workflows-and-jobs#reviewing-previous-workflow-runs). If you do this, please make sure to comment on the Pull Request with a link to the failed logs for debugging purposes.

## Local Development

## Setup
For these tests to run, we require the following conditions:
  - Gloo Edge Helm chart archive be present in the `_test` folder,
  - `glooctl` be built in the`_output` folder
  - kind cluster set up and loaded with the images to be installed by the helm chart

#### (Option A) - Use the CI Install Script (preferred)
[ci/deploy-to-kind-cluster.sh](`https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/ci/deploy-to-kind-cluster.sh`) gets run in CI to setup the test environment for the above requirements.
It accepts a number of environment variables, to control the creation of a kind cluster and deployment of Gloo resources to that kind cluster.

| Name                  | Default    | Description |
| ---                   |   ---      |    ---      |
| CLUSTER_NAME          | kind       | The name of the cluster that will be generated |
| CLUSTER_NODE_VERSION  | v1.22.4    | The version of the [Node Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/kindest/node/) to use for booting the cluster |
| VERSION               | 0.0.0-kind | The version used to tag Gloo images that are deployed to the cluster |
| KUBE2E_TESTS          | gateway    | Name of the test suite to be run. Options: `'gateway', 'gloo', 'ingress', 'helm', 'gloomtls', 'glooctl'` |

Example:
```bash
CLUSTER_NAME=solo-test-cluster CLUSTER_NODE_VERSION=v1.22.4 VERSION=v1.0.0-solo-test ci/deploy-to-kind-cluster.sh
```

#### (Option B) - Manually Run Make Targets
The CI install script executes a series of make targets.

Create a kind cluster: `kind create cluster --name kind`\
Build the helm chart: `VERSION=0.0.0-kind make build-test-chart`\
Build glooctl: `make glooctl`\
Load the images into the cluster: `CLUSTER_NAME=kind VERSION=0.0.0-kind make push-kind-images`


## Verify Your Setup
Before running your tests, it's worthwhile to verify that a cluster was created, and the proper images have been loaded.

```bash
kubectl get nodes
docker exec -ti <nodename> crictl images
```

You should see the list of images in the cluster, including the ones you just uploaded

#### Common Setup Errors
`Error: validation: chart.metadata.version "solo" is invalid`\
In newer versions of helm (>3.5), the version used to build the helm chart (ie the VERSION env variable), needs to respect semantic versioning. This error implies that the version provided does not.

Prepend a valid semver to avoid the error. (ie `kind` can become `0.0.0-kind`)

## Run Tests
To run the regression tests, your kubeconfig file must point to a running Kubernetes cluster.
`kubectl config current-context` should run `kind-<CLUSTER_NAME>`

#### (Option A) - Use the Make Target (preferred)

Use the same command that CI relies on:
```bash
KUBE2E_TESTS=<test-to-run> make run-ci-regression-tests
```

#### (Option B) - Use Ginkgo Directly

The make target just runs ginkgo with a set of useful flags. If you want to control the flags that are provided, you can run:
```bash
KUBE2E_TESTS=<test-to-run> ginkgo -r <other-flags>
```

#### Test Environment Variables
The below table contains the environment variables that can be used to configure the test execution.

| Name              | Default   | Description |
| ---               |   ---     |    ---      |
| KUBE2E_TESTS      | gateway   | Name of the test suite to be run. Options: `'gateway', 'gloo', 'ingress', 'helm', 'gloomtls', 'glooctl'` |
| DEBUG             | 0         | Set to 1 for debug log output |
| WAIT_ON_FAIL      | 0         | Set to 1 to prevent Ginkgo from cleaning up the Gloo Edge installation in case of failure. Useful to exec into inspect resources created by the test. A command to resume the test run (and thus clean up resources) will be logged to the output.
| TEAR_DOWN         | false     | Set to true to uninstall Gloo after the test suite completes |

#### Common Test Errors
`getting Helm chart version: expected a single entry with name [gloo], found: 5`\
The test helm charts are written to the `_test` directory, with the `index.yaml` file containing references to all available charts. The tests require that this file contain only 1 entry. Delete the other entries manually, or run `make clean` to delete this folder entirely, and then re-build the test helm chart.
