docs/content/guides/integrations/vault/aws-irsa-auth/_index.md, before:

---
title: Securing secrets in Hashicorp Vault using AWS IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA)
description: Secure your secrets using AWS IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA)
weight: 1
---

Vault includes the ability to handle authentication using AWS IAM roles. We can either hard-code long-lived credentials, or infer them using AWS IRSA.

AWS allows the ability to manage credentials through **IAM Roles for Service Accounts** (IRSA). With this feature, you can associate IAM roles to Kubernetes Service Accounts, and gain the ability to fetch and use temporary credentials for said role. For more information, see the AWS [IAM roles for service account](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) docs.

## AWS

Start by creating the necessary permissions in AWS.

### Step 1: Create a cluster with OIDC

To configure IRSA, create or use an EKS cluster with an associated OpenID Provider (OIDC). For setup instructions, follow [Creating an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) in the AWS docs.

Next, export the following environment variables to use throughout your configuration.

```shell
export NAMESPACE=gloo-system
# use the cluster name created above
export CLUSTER_NAME="gloo-ee-vault-integration"
export AWS_REGION="us-east-1"
export ACCOUNT_ID=$(aws sts get-caller-identity --query "Account" --output text)
export OIDC_PROVIDER=$(aws eks describe-cluster --name $CLUSTER_NAME --region $AWS_REGION --query "cluster.identity.oidc.issuer" --output text | sed -e "s/^https:\/\///")
```

### Step 2: Set up a Role

Create an AWS Role with a trust relationship to your OIDC provider. This allows the provider to assume the AWS IAM role, specifically for the service accounts in `gloo` and `discovery`.

```shell
cat <<EOF > trust-relationship.json
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Principal": {
				"Federated": "arn:aws:iam::${ACCOUNT_ID}:oidc-provider/${OIDC_PROVIDER}"
			},
			"Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
			"Condition": {
				"StringEqualsIfExists": {
					"${OIDC_PROVIDER}:aud": "sts.amazonaws.com",
					"${OIDC_PROVIDER}:sub": [
						"system:serviceaccount:${NAMESPACE}:gloo",
						"system:serviceaccount:${NAMESPACE}:discovery"
					]
				}
			}
		}
	]
}
EOF

export VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME="dev-role-iam"
export VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN=$([[ $(aws iam list-roles --query "Roles[?RoleName=='${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME}'].Arn" --output text) == "" ]] \
	&& aws iam create-role \
		--role-name $VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME \
		--assume-role-policy-document file://trust-relationship.json \
		--description "Vault auth role" | jq -r .Role.Arn || aws iam list-roles --query "Roles[?RoleName=='${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME}'].Arn" --output text)

# remove the created file
rm -f trust-relationship.json
```

### Step 3: Set a Policy

Create an AWS Policy to grant the necessary permissions for Vault to perform actions, such as assuming the IAM role and getting instance and user information. This is a lighter version of Vault's [Recommended Vault IAM Policy](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth/aws#recommended-vault-iam-policy).

```shell
export VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_NAME=gloo-vault-auth-policy
cat <<EOF > gloo-vault-auth-policy.json
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17"
	"Statement": [
        {
			"Sid": "",
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Action": [
				"iam:GetInstanceProfile",
				"ec2:DescribeInstances"
				"iam:GetUser",
				"iam:GetRole",
			],
			"Resource": "*"
		},
		{
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Action": ["sts:AssumeRole"],
			"Resource": ["${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN}"]
		}
	]
}
EOF

export VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_ARN=$([[ $(aws iam list-policies --query "Policies[?PolicyName=='${VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_NAME}'].Arn" --output text) == "" ]] \
    && aws iam create-policy \
        --region=${AWS_REGION} \
        --policy-name="${VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_NAME}" \
        --description="Policy used by the Vault user to check instance identity" \
        --policy-document file://gloo-vault-auth-policy.json | jq -r .Policy.Arn || aws iam list-policies --query "Policies[?PolicyName=='${VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_NAME}'].Arn" --output text)

rm -f gloo-vault-auth-policy.json
```

Finally, attach the newly-created policy to the role that you created earlier.
```shell
aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name $VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME --policy-arn=${VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_ARN}
```

## Vault

After you set up your AWS resources, you can configure Vault with AWS authentication.

### Step 1: Set up Vault

Install Vault by choosing one of the installation methods in Vault's [Installing Vault](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/install) documentation.

### Step 2: Enable AWS authentication on Vault

```shell
vault auth enable aws
```

### Step 3: Enable a secrets engine

```shell
vault secrets enable -path="dev" -version=2 kv
```

### Step 4: Create a Vault Policy

```shell
cat <<EOF > policy.hcl
# Access to dev path
path "dev/*" {
	capabilities = ["create", "read", "update", "delete", "list"]
} 

# Additional access for UI
path "dev/" {
	capabilities = ["list"]
}

path "sys/mounts" {
	capabilities = ["read", "list"]
}
EOF

vault policy write dev policy.hcl
rm -f policy.hcl
```

### Step 5: Configure the AWS authentication method

Next, configure Vault's AWS authentication method to point to the Security Token Service (STS) endpoint for your provider.

In later steps, you add an `iam_server_id_header_value` to secure the authN/authZ process and ensure that it matches with your configuration in Gloo For more information on the IAM Server ID header, see the Vault [API docs](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/api-docs/auth/aws#iam_server_id_header_value).

```shell
export IAM_SERVER_ID_HEADER_VALUE=vault.gloo.example.com
vault write auth/aws/config/client \
	iam_server_id_header_value=${IAM_SERVER_ID_HEADER_VALUE} \
	sts_endpoint=https://sts.${AWS_REGION}.amazonaws.com \
	sts_region=${AWS_REGION}
```

### Step 6: Associate the Vault Policy with AWS Role

Finally, bind the Vault authentication and policy to your role in AWS. To use IAM roles, the following command sets the `auth_type` to `iam`.

```shell
vault write auth/aws/role/dev-role-iam \
	auth_type=iam \
    bound_iam_principal_arn="${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN}" \
    policies=dev \
    max_ttl=24h
```

## Gloo Edge

Lastly, install Gloo Edge by using a configuration that allows Vault and IRSA credential fetching.
### Step 1: Prepare Helm overrides

Override the default settings to use Vault as a source for managing secrets. To allow for IRSA, add the `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn` annotations, which reference the roles to assume, to the `gloo` and `discovery` service accounts.

```shell
cat <<EOF > helm-overrides.yaml
settings:
	secretOptions:
		sources:
		- vault:
			# set to address for the Vault instance
			address: http://vault-internal.vault:8200
			aws:
				iamServerIdHeader: ${IAM_SERVER_ID_HEADER_VALUE}
				mountPath: aws
				region: ${AWS_REGION}
			pathPrefix: dev
gloo:
	serviceAccount:
		extraAnnotations: 
			eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: ${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN}
discovery:
	serviceAccount:
		extraAnnotations:
			eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: ${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN}
EOF
```

{{% notice note %}}
If you use Gloo Edge Enterprise, nest these Helm settings within the `gloo` section.
{{% /notice %}}


### Step 2: Install Gloo using Helm

```shell
export EDGE_VERSION=v1.15.2

helm repo add gloo https://storage.googleapis.com/solo-public-helm
helm repo update
helm install gloo gloo/gloo --namespace gloo-system --create-namespace --version $EDGE_VERSION --values helm-overrides.yaml
```

Commit message:

Update irsa doc intro + summary

docs/content/guides/integrations/vault/aws-irsa-auth/_index.md, after:

---
title: Securing secrets in Hashicorp Vault using AWS IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA)
description: Secure your secrets using AWS IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA)
weight: 1
---

Vault supports AWS IAM roles for authentication, offering a choice between hard-coded long-lived credentials and automated AWS IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA).

AWS IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA) enable you to associate IAM roles with Kubernetes Service Accounts, allowing automatic retrieval and use of temporary AWS credentials.
This integration enhances security and operational efficiency, ensuring Kubernetes applications securely access Vault secrets while following AWS IAM best practices.

## AWS

Start by creating the necessary permissions in AWS.

### Step 1: Create a cluster with OIDC

To configure IRSA, create or use an EKS cluster with an associated OpenID Provider (OIDC). For setup instructions, follow [Creating an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) in the AWS docs.

Next, export the following environment variables to use throughout your configuration.

```shell
export NAMESPACE=gloo-system
# use the cluster name created above
export CLUSTER_NAME="gloo-ee-vault-integration"
export AWS_REGION="us-east-1"
export ACCOUNT_ID=$(aws sts get-caller-identity --query "Account" --output text)
export OIDC_PROVIDER=$(aws eks describe-cluster --name $CLUSTER_NAME --region $AWS_REGION --query "cluster.identity.oidc.issuer" --output text | sed -e "s/^https:\/\///")
```

### Step 2: Set up a Role

Create an AWS Role with a trust relationship to your OIDC provider. This allows the provider to assume the AWS IAM role, specifically for the service accounts in `gloo` and `discovery`.

```shell
cat <<EOF > trust-relationship.json
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17",
	"Statement": [
		{
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Principal": {
				"Federated": "arn:aws:iam::${ACCOUNT_ID}:oidc-provider/${OIDC_PROVIDER}"
			},
			"Action": "sts:AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity",
			"Condition": {
				"StringEqualsIfExists": {
					"${OIDC_PROVIDER}:aud": "sts.amazonaws.com",
					"${OIDC_PROVIDER}:sub": [
						"system:serviceaccount:${NAMESPACE}:gloo",
						"system:serviceaccount:${NAMESPACE}:discovery"
					]
				}
			}
		}
	]
}
EOF

export VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME="dev-role-iam"
export VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN=$([[ $(aws iam list-roles --query "Roles[?RoleName=='${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME}'].Arn" --output text) == "" ]] \
	&& aws iam create-role \
		--role-name $VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME \
		--assume-role-policy-document file://trust-relationship.json \
		--description "Vault auth role" | jq -r .Role.Arn || aws iam list-roles --query "Roles[?RoleName=='${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME}'].Arn" --output text)

# remove the created file
rm -f trust-relationship.json
```

### Step 3: Set a Policy

Create an AWS Policy to grant the necessary permissions for Vault to perform actions, such as assuming the IAM role and getting instance and user information. This is a lighter version of Vault's [Recommended Vault IAM Policy](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/auth/aws#recommended-vault-iam-policy).

```shell
export VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_NAME=gloo-vault-auth-policy
cat <<EOF > gloo-vault-auth-policy.json
{
	"Version": "2012-10-17"
	"Statement": [
        {
			"Sid": "",
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Action": [
				"iam:GetInstanceProfile",
				"ec2:DescribeInstances"
				"iam:GetUser",
				"iam:GetRole",
			],
			"Resource": "*"
		},
		{
			"Effect": "Allow",
			"Action": ["sts:AssumeRole"],
			"Resource": ["${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN}"]
		}
	]
}
EOF

export VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_ARN=$([[ $(aws iam list-policies --query "Policies[?PolicyName=='${VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_NAME}'].Arn" --output text) == "" ]] \
    && aws iam create-policy \
        --region=${AWS_REGION} \
        --policy-name="${VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_NAME}" \
        --description="Policy used by the Vault user to check instance identity" \
        --policy-document file://gloo-vault-auth-policy.json | jq -r .Policy.Arn || aws iam list-policies --query "Policies[?PolicyName=='${VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_NAME}'].Arn" --output text)

rm -f gloo-vault-auth-policy.json
```

Finally, attach the newly-created policy to the role that you created earlier.
```shell
aws iam attach-role-policy --role-name $VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_NAME --policy-arn=${VAULT_AUTH_POLICY_ARN}
```

## Vault

After you set up your AWS resources, you can configure Vault with AWS authentication.

### Step 1: Set up Vault

Install Vault by choosing one of the installation methods in Vault's [Installing Vault](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/install) documentation.

### Step 2: Enable AWS authentication on Vault

```shell
vault auth enable aws
```

### Step 3: Enable a secrets engine

```shell
vault secrets enable -path="dev" -version=2 kv
```

### Step 4: Create a Vault Policy

```shell
cat <<EOF > policy.hcl
# Access to dev path
path "dev/*" {
	capabilities = ["create", "read", "update", "delete", "list"]
} 

# Additional access for UI
path "dev/" {
	capabilities = ["list"]
}

path "sys/mounts" {
	capabilities = ["read", "list"]
}
EOF

vault policy write dev policy.hcl
rm -f policy.hcl
```

### Step 5: Configure the AWS authentication method

Next, configure Vault's AWS authentication method to point to the Security Token Service (STS) endpoint for your provider.

In later steps, you add an `iam_server_id_header_value` to secure the authN/authZ process and ensure that it matches with your configuration in Gloo For more information on the IAM Server ID header, see the Vault [API docs](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/api-docs/auth/aws#iam_server_id_header_value).

```shell
export IAM_SERVER_ID_HEADER_VALUE=vault.gloo.example.com
vault write auth/aws/config/client \
	iam_server_id_header_value=${IAM_SERVER_ID_HEADER_VALUE} \
	sts_endpoint=https://sts.${AWS_REGION}.amazonaws.com \
	sts_region=${AWS_REGION}
```

### Step 6: Associate the Vault Policy with AWS Role

Finally, bind the Vault authentication and policy to your role in AWS. To use IAM roles, the following command sets the `auth_type` to `iam`.

```shell
vault write auth/aws/role/dev-role-iam \
	auth_type=iam \
    bound_iam_principal_arn="${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN}" \
    policies=dev \
    max_ttl=24h
```

## Gloo Edge

Lastly, install Gloo Edge by using a configuration that allows Vault and IRSA credential fetching.
### Step 1: Prepare Helm overrides

Override the default settings to use Vault as a source for managing secrets. To allow for IRSA, add the `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn` annotations, which reference the roles to assume, to the `gloo` and `discovery` service accounts.

```shell
cat <<EOF > helm-overrides.yaml
settings:
	secretOptions:
		sources:
		- vault:
			# set to address for the Vault instance
			address: http://vault-internal.vault:8200
			aws:
				iamServerIdHeader: ${IAM_SERVER_ID_HEADER_VALUE}
				mountPath: aws
				region: ${AWS_REGION}
			pathPrefix: dev
gloo:
	serviceAccount:
		extraAnnotations: 
			eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: ${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN}
discovery:
	serviceAccount:
		extraAnnotations:
			eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: ${VAULT_AUTH_ROLE_ARN}
EOF
```

{{% notice note %}}
If you use Gloo Edge Enterprise, nest these Helm settings within the `gloo` section.
{{% /notice %}}


### Step 2: Install Gloo using Helm

```shell
export EDGE_VERSION=v1.15.2

helm repo add gloo https://storage.googleapis.com/solo-public-helm
helm repo update
helm install gloo gloo/gloo --namespace gloo-system --create-namespace --version $EDGE_VERSION --values helm-overrides.yaml
```

## Summary

Now, Gloo Edge securely accesses Vault secrets using temporary credentials obtained through AWS IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA).
This enhances security, streamlines access control, and simplifies authorization within your Kubernetes environment.
