docs/content/guides/traffic_management/destination_types/discovered_upstream/_index.md, before:

---
title: Discovered Upstreams
weight: 20
description: Route to a single Upstream automatically detected by Gloo Edge's built-in discovery system
---

Let's configure Gloo Edge to route to a single upstream that was automatically detected by Gloo Edge's built in discovery system. 
In this case, we'll deploy an application to Kubernetes and discovery will create a new `Upstream` CRD for the service
that was created. We'll then configure a virtual service to route to that upstream. 

{{< readfile file="/static/content/setup_notes" markdown="true">}}

## Deploy Petstore

Let's deploy a simple example application called `petstore`:

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="kubectl" codelang="yaml">}}
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solo-io/gloo/v1.11.x/example/petstore/petstore.yaml
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

This should deploy the petstore service to the default namespace. Gloo Edge's discovery system is watching that namespace 
and should immediately create an upstream for the petstore service.  

## Look at discovered Upstream

Discovery automatically creates an upstream
in the discovery namespace (usually `gloo-system`, determined by the `discoveryNamespace` setting). The name of a 
discovered upstream is based on the name, namespace, and port of the service it references, in the form: 
`NAMESPACE-NAME-PORT`. For instance, in this example, we are deploying the petstore service in the default 
namespace and it listens on port 8080. So we'd expect the discovered upstream to have the name `default-petstore-8080`.   

Let's verify the service was discovered and an upstream was written. We can do this using `glooctl`: 

```shell
glooctl get upstream -n gloo-system default-petstore-8080
```

```shell
+-----------------------+------------+----------+-------------------------+
|       UPSTREAM        |    TYPE    |  STATUS  |         DETAILS         |
+-----------------------+------------+----------+-------------------------+
| default-petstore-8080 | Kubernetes | Accepted | svc name:      petstore |
|                       |            |          | svc namespace: default  |
|                       |            |          | port:          8080     |
|                       |            |          | REST service:           |
|                       |            |          | functions:              |
|                       |            |          | - addPet                |
|                       |            |          | - deletePet             |
|                       |            |          | - findPetById           |
|                       |            |          | - findPets              |
|                       |            |          |                         |
+-----------------------+------------+----------+-------------------------+
```

Here, we can see an upstream was created and accepted. The upstream points to the petstore service on port 8080 in the
default namespace. 

By default the upstream created is rather simple. It represents a specific kubernetes service. However, the petstore
application is a swagger service. Gloo Edge can discover this swagger spec, but by default Gloo Edge's function
discovery features are turned off to improve performance. To enable Function Discovery Service (fds) on our petstore,
we need to label the namespace.

```shell
kubectl label namespace default  discovery.solo.io/function_discovery=enabled
```

Gloo Edge discovered that it was a REST service and, using it's function discovery system, 
added the functions it found in the Swagger definition to the upstream.

{{% notice note %}}
The default endpoints evaluated for `swagger` or `OpenAPISpec` docs are:

```
"/swagger.json"
"/swagger/docs/v1"
"/swagger/docs/v2"
"/v1/swagger"
"/v2/swagger"
```

If you have a Swagger definition in a different location that the default conventions listed above, you can customize the location by configuring it in the `serviceSpec.rest.swaggerInfo.url` field. See [Configuring Function Discovery]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/advanced_configuration/fds_mode/" >}}) for more information. 

{{% /notice %}}

Let's look at the yaml output for this upstream from Kubernetes:

```shell
kubectl get upstream -n gloo-system default-petstore-8080 -oyaml
```

```yaml
apiVersion: gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: Upstream
metadata:
  annotations:
    kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
      {"apiVersion":"v1","kind":"Service","metadata":{"annotations":{},"labels":{"service":"petstore"},"name":"petstore","namespace":"default"},"spec":{"ports":[{"port":8080,"protocol":"TCP"}],"selector":{"app":"petstore"}}}
  creationTimestamp: 2019-07-30T20:04:14Z
  generation: 4
  labels:
    discovered_by: kubernetesplugin
    service: petstore
  name: default-petstore-8080
  namespace: gloo-system
  resourceVersion: "360256"
  selfLink: /apis/gloo.solo.io/v1/namespaces/gloo-system/upstreams/default-petstore-8080
  uid: 344a9166-b305-11e9-bbf8-42010a800130
spec:
  discoveryMetadata: {}
  kube:
    selector:
      app: petstore
    serviceName: petstore
    serviceNamespace: default
    servicePort: 8080
    serviceSpec:
      rest:
        swaggerInfo:
          url: http://petstore.default.svc.cluster.local:8080/swagger.json
        transformations:
          addPet:
            body:
              text: '{"id": {{ default(id, "") }},"name": "{{ default(name, "")}}","tag":
                "{{ default(tag, "")}}"}'
            headers:
              :method:
                text: POST
              :path:
                text: /api/pets
              content-type:
                text: application/json
          deletePet:
            headers:
              :method:
                text: DELETE
              :path:
                text: /api/pets/{{ default(id, "") }}
              content-type:
                text: application/json
          findPetById:
            body: {}
            headers:
              :method:
                text: GET
              :path:
                text: /api/pets/{{ default(id, "") }}
              content-length:
                text: "0"
              content-type: {}
              transfer-encoding: {}
          findPets:
            body: {}
            headers:
              :method:
                text: GET
              :path:
                text: /api/pets?tags={{default(tags, "")}}&limit={{default(limit,
                  "")}}
              content-length:
                text: "0"
              content-type: {}
              transfer-encoding: {}
status:
  reportedBy: gloo
  state: 1
```

Note that the discovered upstream also has this label: `discovered_by: kubernetesplugin`. This is an easy way 
to determine that the upstream was created by Gloo Edge discovery. 

## Create a route to this service

Let's create a virtual service, and add a route that directs requests to a function on the petstore service. 
Specifically, we'll add a route for the path `/api/pets`. 

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="kubectl" codelang="yaml">}}
{{< readfile file="guides/traffic_management/destination_types/discovered_upstream/virtual-service.yaml">}}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="glooctl" codelang="shell">}}
glooctl create vs --name test-petstore --namespace gloo-system --domains foo 
glooctl add route --name test-petstore --path-prefix /api/pets --dest-name default-petstore-8080
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Test the route

We can now query this route using curl. 

```shell
curl -H "Host: foo" $(glooctl proxy url)/api/pets
```

This should return: 

```json
[{"id":1,"name":"Dog","status":"available"},{"id":2,"name":"Cat","status":"pending"}]
```

## Summary

We deployed an application to Kubernetes and Gloo Edge automatically discovered upstreams from it, including specific 
functions off of a swagger definition. We created a virtual service and routed requests to one of those endpoints. 

Let's clean up the virtual service we created: 

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="kubectl" codelang="yaml">}}
kubectl delete vs -n gloo-system test-petstore
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="glooctl" codelang="shell" >}}
glooctl delete vs test-petstore
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<br />
<br />

Commit message:

add OpenAPI example, see slack https://solo-io-corp.slack.com/archives/CHJV572TG/p1659127225888189

docs/content/guides/traffic_management/destination_types/discovered_upstream/_index.md, after:

---
title: Discovered Upstreams
weight: 20
description: Route to a single Upstream automatically detected by Gloo Edge's built-in discovery system
---

Let's configure Gloo Edge to route to a single upstream that was automatically detected by Gloo Edge's built in discovery system. 
In this case, we'll deploy an application to Kubernetes and discovery will create a new `Upstream` CRD for the service
that was created. We'll then configure a virtual service to route to that upstream. 

{{< readfile file="/static/content/setup_notes" markdown="true">}}

## Deploy Petstore

Let's deploy a simple example application called `petstore`:

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="kubectl" codelang="yaml">}}
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solo-io/gloo/v1.11.x/example/petstore/petstore.yaml
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

This should deploy the petstore service to the default namespace. Gloo Edge's discovery system is watching that namespace 
and should immediately create an upstream for the petstore service.  

## Look at discovered Upstream

Discovery automatically creates an upstream
in the discovery namespace (usually `gloo-system`, determined by the `discoveryNamespace` setting). The name of a 
discovered upstream is based on the name, namespace, and port of the service it references, in the form: 
`NAMESPACE-NAME-PORT`. For instance, in this example, we are deploying the petstore service in the default 
namespace and it listens on port 8080. So we'd expect the discovered upstream to have the name `default-petstore-8080`.   

Let's verify the service was discovered and an upstream was written. We can do this using `glooctl`: 

```shell
glooctl get upstream -n gloo-system default-petstore-8080
```

```shell
+-----------------------+------------+----------+-------------------------+
|       UPSTREAM        |    TYPE    |  STATUS  |         DETAILS         |
+-----------------------+------------+----------+-------------------------+
| default-petstore-8080 | Kubernetes | Accepted | svc name:      petstore |
|                       |            |          | svc namespace: default  |
|                       |            |          | port:          8080     |
|                       |            |          | REST service:           |
|                       |            |          | functions:              |
|                       |            |          | - addPet                |
|                       |            |          | - deletePet             |
|                       |            |          | - findPetById           |
|                       |            |          | - findPets              |
|                       |            |          |                         |
+-----------------------+------------+----------+-------------------------+
```

Here, we can see an upstream was created and accepted. The upstream points to the petstore service on port 8080 in the
default namespace. 

By default the upstream created is rather simple. It represents a specific Kubernetes service. However, the petstore
application is an OpenAPI (Swagger) service. Gloo Edge can discover this OpenAPI spec, but by default Gloo Edge's function
discovery features are turned off to improve performance. To enable Function Discovery Service (fds) on our petstore,
we need to label the namespace.

```shell
kubectl label namespace default  discovery.solo.io/function_discovery=enabled
```

Gloo Edge discovered that it was a REST service and, using it's function discovery system, 
added the functions it found in the OpenAPI definition to the upstream.

{{% notice note %}}
The default endpoints evaluated for `swagger` or `OpenAPISpec` docs are:

```
"/openapi.json"
"/swagger.json"
"/swagger/docs/v1"
"/swagger/docs/v2"
"/v1/swagger"
"/v2/swagger"
```

If you have an OpenAPI definition in a different location that the default conventions listed above, you can customize the location by configuring it in the `serviceSpec.rest.swaggerInfo.url` field. See [Configuring Function Discovery]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/advanced_configuration/fds_mode/" >}}) for more information. 

{{% /notice %}}

Let's look at the yaml output for this upstream from Kubernetes:

```shell
kubectl get upstream -n gloo-system default-petstore-8080 -oyaml
```

```yaml
apiVersion: gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: Upstream
metadata:
  annotations:
    kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration: |
      {"apiVersion":"v1","kind":"Service","metadata":{"annotations":{},"labels":{"service":"petstore"},"name":"petstore","namespace":"default"},"spec":{"ports":[{"port":8080,"protocol":"TCP"}],"selector":{"app":"petstore"}}}
  creationTimestamp: 2019-07-30T20:04:14Z
  generation: 4
  labels:
    discovered_by: kubernetesplugin
    service: petstore
  name: default-petstore-8080
  namespace: gloo-system
  resourceVersion: "360256"
  selfLink: /apis/gloo.solo.io/v1/namespaces/gloo-system/upstreams/default-petstore-8080
  uid: 344a9166-b305-11e9-bbf8-42010a800130
spec:
  discoveryMetadata: {}
  kube:
    selector:
      app: petstore
    serviceName: petstore
    serviceNamespace: default
    servicePort: 8080
    serviceSpec:
      rest:
        swaggerInfo:
          url: http://petstore.default.svc.cluster.local:8080/swagger.json
        transformations:
          addPet:
            body:
              text: '{"id": {{ default(id, "") }},"name": "{{ default(name, "")}}","tag":
                "{{ default(tag, "")}}"}'
            headers:
              :method:
                text: POST
              :path:
                text: /api/pets
              content-type:
                text: application/json
          deletePet:
            headers:
              :method:
                text: DELETE
              :path:
                text: /api/pets/{{ default(id, "") }}
              content-type:
                text: application/json
          findPetById:
            body: {}
            headers:
              :method:
                text: GET
              :path:
                text: /api/pets/{{ default(id, "") }}
              content-length:
                text: "0"
              content-type: {}
              transfer-encoding: {}
          findPets:
            body: {}
            headers:
              :method:
                text: GET
              :path:
                text: /api/pets?tags={{default(tags, "")}}&limit={{default(limit,
                  "")}}
              content-length:
                text: "0"
              content-type: {}
              transfer-encoding: {}
status:
  reportedBy: gloo
  state: 1
```

Note that the discovered upstream also has this label: `discovered_by: kubernetesplugin`. This is an easy way 
to determine that the upstream was created by Gloo Edge discovery. 

## Create a route to this service

Let's create a virtual service, and add a route that directs requests to a function on the petstore service. 
Specifically, we'll add a route for the path `/api/pets`. 

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="kubectl" codelang="yaml">}}
{{< readfile file="guides/traffic_management/destination_types/discovered_upstream/virtual-service.yaml">}}
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="glooctl" codelang="shell">}}
glooctl create vs --name test-petstore --namespace gloo-system --domains foo 
glooctl add route --name test-petstore --path-prefix /api/pets --dest-name default-petstore-8080
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Test the route

We can now query this route using curl. 

```shell
curl -H "Host: foo" $(glooctl proxy url)/api/pets
```

This should return: 

```json
[{"id":1,"name":"Dog","status":"available"},{"id":2,"name":"Cat","status":"pending"}]
```

## Summary

We deployed an application to Kubernetes and Gloo Edge automatically discovered upstreams from it, including specific 
functions off of an OpenAPI definition. We created a virtual service and routed requests to one of those endpoints. 

Let's clean up the virtual service we created: 

{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="kubectl" codelang="yaml">}}
kubectl delete vs -n gloo-system test-petstore
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="glooctl" codelang="shell" >}}
glooctl delete vs test-petstore
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

<br />
<br />
