docs/content/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/consul/query_options.proto.sk.md, before:


---
title: "query_options.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `consul.options.gloo.solo.io` 
#### Types:


- [QueryOptions](#queryoptions)
  

 

##### Enums:


	- [ConsulConsistencyModes](#consulconsistencymodes)



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/consul/query_options.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/consul/query_options.proto)





---
### QueryOptions

 
mirrors client query options struct in consul catalog api

```yaml
"consistencyMode": .consul.options.gloo.solo.io.ConsulConsistencyModes

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `consistencyMode` | [.consul.options.gloo.solo.io.ConsulConsistencyModes](../query_options.proto.sk/#consulconsistencymodes) |  |



  
### ConsulConsistencyModes

Description: These are the same consistency modes offered by Consul. For more information please review https://www.consul.io/api-docs/features/consistency.
For more information please review https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/consul/api#QueryOptions.

| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| ConsistentMode | This is strongly consistent. Sets the RequireConsistent in the consul api to true. |
| DefaultMode | This will set (clears) both the AllowStale and the RequireConsistent in the consul api to false. |
| StaleMode | Allows stale reads when set. This will set the AllowStale in the consul api. |


<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->

Commit message:

Add new APIs for caching

docs/content/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/consul/query_options.proto.sk.md, after:


---
title: "query_options.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `consul.options.gloo.solo.io` 
#### Types:


- [QueryOptions](#queryoptions)
  

 

##### Enums:


	- [ConsulConsistencyModes](#consulconsistencymodes)



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/consul/query_options.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/projects/gloo/api/v1/options/consul/query_options.proto)





---
### QueryOptions

 
mirrors client query options struct in consul catalog api

```yaml
"useCache": .google.protobuf.BoolValue
"maxAge": .google.protobuf.Duration
"staleIfError": .google.protobuf.Duration

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `useCache` | [.google.protobuf.BoolValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/bool-value) | UseCache requests that the agent cache results locally. See https://www.consul.io/api/features/caching.html for more details on the semantics. Defaults to true. |
| `maxAge` | [.google.protobuf.Duration](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/duration) | MaxAge limits how old a cached value will be returned if UseCache is true. If there is a cached response that is older than the MaxAge, it is treated as a cache miss and a new fetch invoked. If the fetch fails, the error is returned. Clients that wish to allow for stale results on error can set StaleIfError to a longer duration to change this behavior. It is ignored if the endpoint supports background refresh caching. See https://www.consul.io/api/features/caching.html for more details. Defaults to 5s. |
| `staleIfError` | [.google.protobuf.Duration](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/duration) | StaleIfError specifies how stale the client will accept a cached response if the servers are unavailable to fetch a fresh one. Only makes sense when UseCache is true and MaxAge is set to a lower, non-zero value. It is ignored if the endpoint supports background refresh caching. See https://www.consul.io/api/features/caching.html for more details. Defaults to 5m. |



  
### ConsulConsistencyModes

Description: These are the same consistency modes offered by Consul. For more information please review https://www.consul.io/api-docs/features/consistency.
For more information please review https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hashicorp/consul/api#QueryOptions.

| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| ConsistentMode | RequireConsistent forces the read to be fully consistent. This is more expensive but prevents ever performing a stale read. |
| DefaultMode | This will set (clears) both the AllowStale and the RequireConsistent in the consul api to false. |
| StaleMode | AllowStale allows any Consul server (non-leader) to service a read. This allows for lower latency and higher throughput |


<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->
