docs/content/getting_started/_index.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
weight: 5
---

To jump right in with Gloo Edge, the quickest way is with your own Kubernetes cluster. Your cluster might be on your local workstation or in a cloud environment. For more details, see the [Preparation]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/preparation/" %}}) guide and [Kubernetes cluster setup]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/platform_configuration/cluster_setup/" >}}). 

## Quick start installation {#install}

After you have a cluster, you can install Gloo Edge through the command line with the `glooctl` CLI or Helm.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="glooctl"%}}
1. Install `glooctl`. The steps vary on your operating system.
   * Linux or macOS
     ```shell
     curl -sL https://run.solo.io/gloo/install | sh
     export PATH=$HOME/.gloo/bin:$PATH
     ```
   * Windows
     ```shell
     (New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString("https://run.solo.io/gloo/windows/install") | iex
     $env:Path += ";$env:userprofile/.gloo/bin/"
     ``` 
2. Install Gloo Edge.
   ```shell
   glooctl install gateway
   ````
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Helm"%}}
1. Add the Helm repository for Gloo Edge.
   ```shell
   helm repo add gloo https://storage.googleapis.com/solo-public-helm
   helm repo update
   ```
2. Create the namespace for the Gloo Edge components.
   ```shell
   kubectl create namespace gloo-system
   ```
3. Install the Helm chart.
   ```shell
   helm install gloo gloo/gloo --namespace gloo-system
   ```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

That's it! Now, you can try the [Hello World example]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/hello_world/" %}}) to get an idea of how Gloo Edge can be used.

{{% notice tip %}} Looking for more training? Check out [Solo Academy](https://www.solo.io/solo-academy/) for on-demand and instructor-led courses and certifications in the latest Envoy, Istio, and application networking technologies.{{% /notice %}}

Commit message:

doc(helm): use --create-namespace parameter instead of separated `kubectl` command

docs/content/getting_started/_index.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
weight: 5
---

To jump right in with Gloo Edge, the quickest way is with your own Kubernetes cluster. Your cluster might be on your local workstation or in a cloud environment. For more details, see the [Preparation]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/preparation/" %}}) guide and [Kubernetes cluster setup]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/platform_configuration/cluster_setup/" >}}). 

## Quick start installation {#install}

After you have a cluster, you can install Gloo Edge through the command line with the `glooctl` CLI or Helm.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="glooctl"%}}
1. Install `glooctl`. The steps vary on your operating system.
   * Linux or macOS
     ```shell
     curl -sL https://run.solo.io/gloo/install | sh
     export PATH=$HOME/.gloo/bin:$PATH
     ```
   * Windows
     ```shell
     (New-Object System.Net.WebClient).DownloadString("https://run.solo.io/gloo/windows/install") | iex
     $env:Path += ";$env:userprofile/.gloo/bin/"
     ``` 
2. Install Gloo Edge.
   ```shell
   glooctl install gateway
   ````
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Helm"%}}
1. Add the Helm repository for Gloo Edge.
   ```shell
   helm repo add gloo https://storage.googleapis.com/solo-public-helm
   helm repo update
   ```
2. Install the Helm chart. This command creates the `gloo-system` namespace and installs the Gloo Edge components into it.
   ```shell
   helm install gloo gloo/gloo --namespace gloo-system --create-namespace
   ```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

That's it! Now, you can try the [Hello World example]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/hello_world/" %}}) to get an idea of how Gloo Edge can be used.

{{% notice tip %}} Looking for more training? Check out [Solo Academy](https://www.solo.io/solo-academy/) for on-demand and instructor-led courses and certifications in the latest Envoy, Istio, and application networking technologies.{{% /notice %}}
