devel/testing/aws-tests.md, before:

# AWS Tests

## E2E Tests
See [e2e-tests](./e2e-tests.md) for more details about e2e tests in general

### Lambda Tests
**These steps can only be taken if you are a Gloo Edge maintainer**

You will need to do the following to run the [AWS Lambda Tests](/test/e2e/aws_test.go) locally:
1. Obtain an AWS IAM User account that is part of the Solo.io organization
2. Create an AWS access key
    - Sign into the AWS console with the account created during step 1
    - Hover over your username at the top right of the page. Click on "My Security Credentials"
    - In the section titled "AWS IAM credentials", click "Create access key" to create an acess key
    - Save the Access key ID and the associated secret key
3. Install AWS CLI v2
    - You can check whether you have AWS CLI installed by running `aws --version`
    - Installation guides for various operating systems can be found [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html)
4. Configure AWS credentials on your machine
    - You can do this by running `aws configure`
    - You will be asked to provide your Access Key ID and Secret Key from step 2, as well as the default region name and default output format
        - It is critical that you set the default region to `us-east-1`
    - This will create a credentials file at `~/.aws/credentials` on Linux or macOS, or at `C:\Users\USERNAME\.aws\credentials` on Windows. The tests read this file in order to interact with lambdas that have been created in the Solo.io organization

Commit message:

add section on temporary credentials in aws test readme

devel/testing/aws-tests.md, after:

# AWS Tests

## E2E Tests
See [e2e-tests](./e2e-tests.md) for more details about e2e tests in general

### Lambda Tests
**These steps can only be taken if you are a Gloo Edge maintainer**

You will need to do the following to run the [AWS Lambda Tests](/test/e2e/aws_test.go) locally:
1. Obtain an AWS IAM User account that is part of the Solo.io organization
2. Create an AWS access key
    - Sign into the AWS console with the account created during step 1
    - Hover over your username at the top right of the page. Click on "My Security Credentials"
      - If you are unable to view or create security credentials, see [Temporary credentials](#temporary-credentials).
    - In the section titled "AWS IAM credentials", click "Create access key" to create an access key
    - Save the Access key ID and the associated secret key
3. Install AWS CLI v2
    - You can check whether you have AWS CLI installed by running `aws --version`
    - Installation guides for various operating systems can be found [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html)
4. Configure AWS credentials on your machine
    - You can do this by running `aws configure`
    - You will be asked to provide your Access Key ID and Secret Key from step 2, as well as the default region name and default output format
        - It is critical that you set the default region to `us-east-1`
    - This will create a credentials file at `~/.aws/credentials` on Linux or macOS, or at `C:\Users\USERNAME\.aws\credentials` on Windows. The tests read this file in order to interact with lambdas that have been created in the Solo.io organization

## Temporary credentials
Solo's AWS security has been tightened, so it _may_ not be possible to generate personal AIM credentials anymore - at least without the proper permissions.

You can configure your local credentials using the temporary credentials found in our [AWS start page](https://soloio.awsapps.com/start#/) by:
1. Selecting the `developers` AWS account
2. Click on the "Command line or programmatic access" option
3. Use the credentials shown, _including_ the Session Token
   - _Note: From experience, these credentials update every 12 hours, so you'll need to update the credentials as necessary._
