---
title: 1.13.0+ Upgrade Notice
weight: 35
description: Upgrading to Gloo Edge 1.13.x and Gloo Edge Enterprise 1.13.x
---

Review and apply version-specific changes in Gloo Edge 1.13.x and Gloo Edge Enterprise 1.13.x before upgrading your Gloo Edge installation.


## Feature changes {#features}

Review the following highlights of features changes in Gloo Edge version 1.13. For more details on particular changes, see the [Changelog]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/changelog/" %}}).

<!--TODO add links-->

**New or improved features**:
* **New! Aerospike integration**: Now, you can use Aerospike as the backing database for your rate limiting or external auth servers. You must configure Aerospike when you install these servers. The default Redis backing database is unchanged. For more information, see the docs.

* **New! Canary upgrades for Gloo Edge Federation**: Now, you can upgrade your Gloo Edge Federation installation in a canary model. For more information, see [Canary Upgrade]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/upgrading/canary/" %}}).

* **Improved config validation**: By default, Gloo Edge checks the configuration of Gloo custom resources to prevent invalid config. Now, configuration validation is also automatically checked for add-ons such as rate limiting and external auth custom resources. For more information, see [Config Reporting & Validation]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/configuration_validation/" %}}).

**Deprecated features**:
* None

**Removed features**:
* None

## Helm changes {#helm}

**New Helm fields**:
* To enable the Aerospike integration, you can use several new Helm fields. For more information, see the docs.

**Deprecated Helm fields**:
* None

**Removed Helm fields**:
* None

## CRD changes {#crd}

{{% notice warning %}}
New CRDs are automatically applied to your cluster when performing a `helm install` operation.However, they are not applied when performing an `helm upgrade` operation. This is a [deliberate design choice](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts/#limitations-on-crds) on the part of the Helm maintainers, given the risk associated with changing CRDs. Given this limitation, you must apply new CRDs to the cluster before upgrading.
{{% /notice %}}

**New and updated CRDs**:
* None

**Deprecated CRDs**:
* None

**Removed CRDs**:
* None

## Upgrade process {#upgrade}

The following steps describe the general process for upgrading Gloo Edge. 

{{% notice tip %}}
Want to test the new version before upgrading? Try out a [Canary Upgrade]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/upgrading/canary/" %}}).
{{% /notice %}}

1. Follow steps 1 - 2 in [Upgrade Steps]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/upgrading/upgrade_steps/" %}}) to prepare for upgrading, and to upgrade `glooctl`.

2. Apply the new and updated CRDs. Replace the version with the specific patch version that you are upgrading to, such as `1.13.0` in the following examples.

   {{< tabs >}}
   {{% tab name="Gloo Edge" %}}
   ```sh
   helm repo update
   helm pull gloo/gloo --version 1.13.0 --untar
   kubectl apply -f gloo/crds
   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{% tab name="Gloo Edge Enterprise" %}}
   ```sh
   helm repo update
   helm pull glooe/gloo-ee --version 1.13.0 --untar
   kubectl apply -f gloo-ee/charts/gloo/crds
   # If Gloo Federation is enabled
   kubectl apply -f gloo-ee/charts/gloo-fed/crds
   ```
   {{% /tab %}}
   {{< /tabs >}}

3. Enable any [new capabilities](#capabilities) that you want to use, such as Aerospike integration for rate limiting or Gloo Portal API key external authentication.

4. Continue to [upgrade the Gloo Edge server components]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/upgrading/upgrade_steps/#step-4-upgrade-gloo-edge" %}}) via Helm.
