docs/content/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/grpc/validation/gloo_validation.proto.sk.md, before:


---
title: "gloo_validation.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `gloo.solo.io` 
#### Types:


- [GlooValidationServiceRequest](#gloovalidationservicerequest)
- [GlooValidationServiceResponse](#gloovalidationserviceresponse)
- [ModifiedResources](#modifiedresources)
- [DeletedResources](#deletedresources)
- [ValidationReport](#validationreport)
- [ResourceReport](#resourcereport)
- [NotifyOnResyncRequest](#notifyonresyncrequest)
- [NotifyOnResyncResponse](#notifyonresyncresponse)
- [ProxyReport](#proxyreport)
- [ListenerReport](#listenerreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [HttpListenerReport](#httplistenerreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [VirtualHostReport](#virtualhostreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [RouteReport](#routereport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [Warning](#warning)
- [Type](#type)
- [TcpListenerReport](#tcplistenerreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [TcpHostReport](#tcphostreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [HybridListenerReport](#hybridlistenerreport)
- [MatchedListenerReport](#matchedlistenerreport)
  



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/grpc/validation/gloo_validation.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/projects/gloo/api/grpc/validation/gloo_validation.proto)





---
### GlooValidationServiceRequest



```yaml
"proxy": .gloo.solo.io.Proxy
"modifiedResources": .gloo.solo.io.ModifiedResources
"deletedResources": .gloo.solo.io.DeletedResources

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `proxy` | [.gloo.solo.io.Proxy](../../../v1/proxy.proto.sk/#proxy) | Optional. If a proxy is provided in the request, the response will contain only the report for that proxy. If no proxy is provided, the response will contain a report for each proxy in the Gloo API snapshot. |
| `modifiedResources` | [.gloo.solo.io.ModifiedResources](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#modifiedresources) | Resources to be created or modified. Only one of `modifiedResources` or `deletedResources` can be set. |
| `deletedResources` | [.gloo.solo.io.DeletedResources](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#deletedresources) | Resources to be deleted. Only one of `deletedResources` or `modifiedResources` can be set. |




---
### GlooValidationServiceResponse



```yaml
"validationReports": []gloo.solo.io.ValidationReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `validationReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.ValidationReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#validationreport) | This list contains a validation report for each proxy that was translated and validated with the proposed Gloo API snapshot. |




---
### ModifiedResources



```yaml
"upstreams": []gloo.solo.io.Upstream

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `upstreams` | [[]gloo.solo.io.Upstream](../../../v1/upstream.proto.sk/#upstream) | Optional, a list of the upstreams to create or modify. |




---
### DeletedResources



```yaml
"upstreamRefs": []core.solo.io.ResourceRef
"secretRefs": []core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `upstreamRefs` | [[]core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk/#resourceref) | Optional, a list of the upstreams to delete. |
| `secretRefs` | [[]core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk/#resourceref) | Optional, a list of the secrets to delete. |




---
### ValidationReport

 
A validation report represents the warnings and errors that produced during
a single translation loop of a proxy.

```yaml
"proxyReport": .gloo.solo.io.ProxyReport
"upstreamReports": []gloo.solo.io.ResourceReport
"proxy": .gloo.solo.io.Proxy

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `proxyReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.ProxyReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#proxyreport) | The report for this proxy, including any warnings or errors in its sub-resources. |
| `upstreamReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.ResourceReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#resourcereport) | The reports for all upstreams that were translated with this proxy. |
| `proxy` | [.gloo.solo.io.Proxy](../../../v1/proxy.proto.sk/#proxy) | The proxy for this translation loop. |




---
### ResourceReport



```yaml
"resourceRef": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef
"warnings": []string
"errors": []string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `resourceRef` | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk/#resourceref) | A way to refer to resources in different namespaces by including the name and namespace of the resource in this `resourceRef`. |
| `warnings` | `[]string` | The warnings that are returned for the resource. Warnings do not necessarily prevent an operation from happening, but might require action. |
| `errors` | `[]string` | The errors that are returned for the resource. You cannot modify the resource until the errors are resolved. For help troubleshooting, see the [Debug guide]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/debugging_gloo/" >}}). |




---
### NotifyOnResyncRequest



```yaml

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 




---
### NotifyOnResyncResponse



```yaml

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 




---
### ProxyReport

 
The Proxy Report should contain one report for each sub-resource of the Proxy
E.g., each listener will have a corresponding report. Within each listener report is
a route report corresponding to each route on the listener.

If the report contains no errors, the (sub-)resource is valid.

```yaml
"listenerReports": []gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `listenerReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#listenerreport) |  |




---
### ListenerReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport.Error
"httpListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport
"tcpListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport
"hybridListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.HybridListenerReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on top-level config of the listener. |
| `httpListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#httplistenerreport) | report for the http listener. Only one of `httpListenerReport`, `tcpListenerReport`, or `hybridListenerReport` can be set. |
| `tcpListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#tcplistenerreport) | report for the tcp listener. Only one of `tcpListenerReport`, `httpListenerReport`, or `hybridListenerReport` can be set. |
| `hybridListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.HybridListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#hybridlistenerreport) | report for the hybrid listener. Only one of `hybridListenerReport`, `httpListenerReport`, or `tcpListenerReport` can be set. |




---
### Error

 
error types for top-level listener config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `NameNotUniqueError` |  |
| `BindPortNotUniqueError` |  |
| `SSLConfigError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### HttpListenerReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport.Error
"virtualHostReports": []gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) |  |
| `virtualHostReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#virtualhostreport) | report for nested virtual hosts. |




---
### Error

 
error types for top-level http listener config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### VirtualHostReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport.Error
"routeReports": []gloo.solo.io.RouteReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on top-level config of the virtual host. |
| `routeReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.RouteReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#routereport) |  |




---
### Error

 
error types for top-level virtual host config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `NameNotUniqueError` |  |
| `DomainsNotUniqueError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |
| `EmptyDomainError` |  |




---
### RouteReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Error
"warnings": []gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Warning

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on the config of the route. |
| `warnings` | [[]gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Warning](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#warning) | warnings on the config of the route. |




---
### Error

 
error types for the given route config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `InvalidMatcherError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### Warning

 
warning types for the given route config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Warning.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Warning.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `InvalidDestinationWarning` |  |




---
### TcpListenerReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport.Error
"tcpHostReports": []gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on top-level config of the listener. |
| `tcpHostReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#tcphostreport) |  |




---
### Error

 
error types for top-level tcp listener config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `NameNotUniqueError` |  |
| `BindPortNotUniqueError` |  |
| `SSLConfigError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### TcpHostReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport.Error

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on the tcp host. |




---
### Error

 
error types for tcp host config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `NameNotUniqueError` |  |
| `InvalidDestinationError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### HybridListenerReport



```yaml
"matchedListenerReports": map<string, .gloo.solo.io.MatchedListenerReport>

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `matchedListenerReports` | `map<string, .gloo.solo.io.MatchedListenerReport>` | map key should uniquely identify MatchedListenerReport by matcher. |




---
### MatchedListenerReport



```yaml
"httpListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport
"tcpListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `httpListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#httplistenerreport) |  Only one of `httpListenerReport` or `tcpListenerReport` can be set. |
| `tcpListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#tcplistenerreport) |  Only one of `tcpListenerReport` or `httpListenerReport` can be set. |





<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->

Commit message:

Isolate Secure VirtualHosts On Separate FilterChains (#6558)
* Introduce AggregateListener to the Listener API

* generated-code

* add listener report, initial handilng of aggregate listener

* initialize aggregate listener report

* codegen

* beging to support httpTranslator for isolation virtual hosts

* continue with http translator

* add setting

* inject setting into translator

* move code to ensure new translation is only run if opted into, and to reuse virtualservice translation

* add test for translator branching logic for new aggregate translator

* add tests for listener subsystem

* begin report assertion tests

* more report processing tests

* begin e2e tests

* Add HttpGateway support for AggregateTranslator, e2e tests passing

* cleanup comment

* fix test for unsupported feature

* codegen

* convert setup/cleanup into utility so other tests can benefit

* support per gw annotation, with tests

* update comments in proxy api

* codegen

* upgrade solo-kit and protoc-gen-openapi deps

* configure new codegen settings for validation schema

* run codegen to descrease proxy CRD size

* fix import

* fix comparison between string and type

* fix comment

* support proxy validation

* cleanup terminology around HttpFilter

* clarify todo

* add changelog

* add kube utility

* fix port overlap in SimpleGlooSnapshot

* codegen

* Adding changelog file to new location

* Deleting changelog file from old location

* update deps and changelog

* Adding changelog file to new location

* Deleting changelog file from old location

Co-authored-by: soloio-bulldozer[bot] <48420018+soloio-bulldozer[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: changelog-bot <changelog-bot>

docs/content/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/grpc/validation/gloo_validation.proto.sk.md, after:


---
title: "gloo_validation.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `gloo.solo.io` 
#### Types:


- [GlooValidationServiceRequest](#gloovalidationservicerequest)
- [GlooValidationServiceResponse](#gloovalidationserviceresponse)
- [ModifiedResources](#modifiedresources)
- [DeletedResources](#deletedresources)
- [ValidationReport](#validationreport)
- [ResourceReport](#resourcereport)
- [NotifyOnResyncRequest](#notifyonresyncrequest)
- [NotifyOnResyncResponse](#notifyonresyncresponse)
- [ProxyReport](#proxyreport)
- [ListenerReport](#listenerreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [HttpListenerReport](#httplistenerreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [VirtualHostReport](#virtualhostreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [RouteReport](#routereport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [Warning](#warning)
- [Type](#type)
- [TcpListenerReport](#tcplistenerreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [TcpHostReport](#tcphostreport)
- [Error](#error)
- [Type](#type)
- [HybridListenerReport](#hybridlistenerreport)
- [MatchedListenerReport](#matchedlistenerreport)
- [AggregateListenerReport](#aggregatelistenerreport)
  



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/grpc/validation/gloo_validation.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/projects/gloo/api/grpc/validation/gloo_validation.proto)





---
### GlooValidationServiceRequest



```yaml
"proxy": .gloo.solo.io.Proxy
"modifiedResources": .gloo.solo.io.ModifiedResources
"deletedResources": .gloo.solo.io.DeletedResources

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `proxy` | [.gloo.solo.io.Proxy](../../../v1/proxy.proto.sk/#proxy) | Optional. If a proxy is provided in the request, the response will contain only the report for that proxy. If no proxy is provided, the response will contain a report for each proxy in the Gloo API snapshot. |
| `modifiedResources` | [.gloo.solo.io.ModifiedResources](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#modifiedresources) | Resources to be created or modified. Only one of `modifiedResources` or `deletedResources` can be set. |
| `deletedResources` | [.gloo.solo.io.DeletedResources](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#deletedresources) | Resources to be deleted. Only one of `deletedResources` or `modifiedResources` can be set. |




---
### GlooValidationServiceResponse



```yaml
"validationReports": []gloo.solo.io.ValidationReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `validationReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.ValidationReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#validationreport) | This list contains a validation report for each proxy that was translated and validated with the proposed Gloo API snapshot. |




---
### ModifiedResources



```yaml
"upstreams": []gloo.solo.io.Upstream

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `upstreams` | [[]gloo.solo.io.Upstream](../../../v1/upstream.proto.sk/#upstream) | Optional, a list of the upstreams to create or modify. |




---
### DeletedResources



```yaml
"upstreamRefs": []core.solo.io.ResourceRef
"secretRefs": []core.solo.io.ResourceRef

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `upstreamRefs` | [[]core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk/#resourceref) | Optional, a list of the upstreams to delete. |
| `secretRefs` | [[]core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk/#resourceref) | Optional, a list of the secrets to delete. |




---
### ValidationReport

 
A validation report represents the warnings and errors that produced during
a single translation loop of a proxy.

```yaml
"proxyReport": .gloo.solo.io.ProxyReport
"upstreamReports": []gloo.solo.io.ResourceReport
"proxy": .gloo.solo.io.Proxy

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `proxyReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.ProxyReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#proxyreport) | The report for this proxy, including any warnings or errors in its sub-resources. |
| `upstreamReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.ResourceReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#resourcereport) | The reports for all upstreams that were translated with this proxy. |
| `proxy` | [.gloo.solo.io.Proxy](../../../v1/proxy.proto.sk/#proxy) | The proxy for this translation loop. |




---
### ResourceReport



```yaml
"resourceRef": .core.solo.io.ResourceRef
"warnings": []string
"errors": []string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `resourceRef` | [.core.solo.io.ResourceRef](../../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/ref.proto.sk/#resourceref) | A way to refer to resources in different namespaces by including the name and namespace of the resource in this `resourceRef`. |
| `warnings` | `[]string` | The warnings that are returned for the resource. Warnings do not necessarily prevent an operation from happening, but might require action. |
| `errors` | `[]string` | The errors that are returned for the resource. You cannot modify the resource until the errors are resolved. For help troubleshooting, see the [Debug guide]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/operations/debugging_gloo/" >}}). |




---
### NotifyOnResyncRequest



```yaml

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 




---
### NotifyOnResyncResponse



```yaml

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 




---
### ProxyReport

 
The Proxy Report should contain one report for each sub-resource of the Proxy
E.g., each listener will have a corresponding report. Within each listener report is
a route report corresponding to each route on the listener.

If the report contains no errors, the (sub-)resource is valid.

```yaml
"listenerReports": []gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `listenerReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#listenerreport) |  |




---
### ListenerReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport.Error
"httpListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport
"tcpListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport
"hybridListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.HybridListenerReport
"aggregateListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.AggregateListenerReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on top-level config of the listener. |
| `httpListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#httplistenerreport) | report for the http listener. Only one of `httpListenerReport`, `tcpListenerReport`, `hybridListenerReport`, or `aggregateListenerReport` can be set. |
| `tcpListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#tcplistenerreport) | report for the tcp listener. Only one of `tcpListenerReport`, `httpListenerReport`, `hybridListenerReport`, or `aggregateListenerReport` can be set. |
| `hybridListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.HybridListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#hybridlistenerreport) | report for the hybrid listener. Only one of `hybridListenerReport`, `httpListenerReport`, `tcpListenerReport`, or `aggregateListenerReport` can be set. |
| `aggregateListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.AggregateListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#aggregatelistenerreport) | report for the aggregate listener. Only one of `aggregateListenerReport`, `httpListenerReport`, `tcpListenerReport`, or `hybridListenerReport` can be set. |




---
### Error

 
error types for top-level listener config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.ListenerReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `NameNotUniqueError` |  |
| `BindPortNotUniqueError` |  |
| `SSLConfigError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### HttpListenerReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport.Error
"virtualHostReports": []gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) |  |
| `virtualHostReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#virtualhostreport) | report for nested virtual hosts. |




---
### Error

 
error types for top-level http listener config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### VirtualHostReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport.Error
"routeReports": []gloo.solo.io.RouteReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on top-level config of the virtual host. |
| `routeReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.RouteReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#routereport) |  |




---
### Error

 
error types for top-level virtual host config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `NameNotUniqueError` |  |
| `DomainsNotUniqueError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |
| `EmptyDomainError` |  |




---
### RouteReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Error
"warnings": []gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Warning

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on the config of the route. |
| `warnings` | [[]gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Warning](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#warning) | warnings on the config of the route. |




---
### Error

 
error types for the given route config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `InvalidMatcherError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### Warning

 
warning types for the given route config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Warning.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.RouteReport.Warning.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `InvalidDestinationWarning` |  |




---
### TcpListenerReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport.Error
"tcpHostReports": []gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on top-level config of the listener. |
| `tcpHostReports` | [[]gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#tcphostreport) |  |




---
### Error

 
error types for top-level tcp listener config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `NameNotUniqueError` |  |
| `BindPortNotUniqueError` |  |
| `SSLConfigError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### TcpHostReport



```yaml
"errors": []gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport.Error

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `errors` | [[]gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport.Error](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#error) | errors on the tcp host. |




---
### Error

 
error types for tcp host config

```yaml
"type": .gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport.Error.Type
"reason": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `type` | [.gloo.solo.io.TcpHostReport.Error.Type](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#type) | the type of the error. |
| `reason` | `string` | any extra info as a string. |




---
### Type



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `NameNotUniqueError` |  |
| `InvalidDestinationError` |  |
| `ProcessingError` |  |




---
### HybridListenerReport



```yaml
"matchedListenerReports": map<string, .gloo.solo.io.MatchedListenerReport>

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `matchedListenerReports` | `map<string, .gloo.solo.io.MatchedListenerReport>` | map key should uniquely identify MatchedListenerReport by matcher. |




---
### MatchedListenerReport



```yaml
"httpListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport
"tcpListenerReport": .gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `httpListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#httplistenerreport) |  Only one of `httpListenerReport` or `tcpListenerReport` can be set. |
| `tcpListenerReport` | [.gloo.solo.io.TcpListenerReport](../gloo_validation.proto.sk/#tcplistenerreport) |  Only one of `tcpListenerReport` or `httpListenerReport` can be set. |




---
### AggregateListenerReport

 
the report for an AggregateListener

```yaml
"httpListenerReports": map<string, .gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport>

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `httpListenerReports` | `map<string, .gloo.solo.io.HttpListenerReport>` |  |





<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->
