docs/content/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/upstream.proto.sk.md, before:


---
title: "upstream.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `gloo.solo.io` 
#### Types:


- [Upstream](#upstream) **Top-Level Resource**
- [ClusterProtocolSelection](#clusterprotocolselection)
- [DiscoveryMetadata](#discoverymetadata)
- [HeaderValue](#headervalue)
  



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/upstream.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/projects/gloo/api/v1/upstream.proto)





---
### Upstream

 
Upstreams represent destination for routing HTTP requests. Upstreams can be compared to
[clusters](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/cluster/v3/cluster.proto) in Envoy terminology.
Each upstream in Gloo has a type. Supported types include `static`, `kubernetes`, `aws`, `consul`, and more.
Each upstream type is handled by a corresponding Gloo plugin. (plugins currently need to be compiled into Gloo)

```yaml
"namespacedStatuses": .core.solo.io.NamespacedStatuses
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"discoveryMetadata": .gloo.solo.io.DiscoveryMetadata
"sslConfig": .gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSslConfig
"circuitBreakers": .gloo.solo.io.CircuitBreakerConfig
"loadBalancerConfig": .gloo.solo.io.LoadBalancerConfig
"healthChecks": []solo.io.envoy.api.v2.core.HealthCheck
"outlierDetection": .solo.io.envoy.api.v2.cluster.OutlierDetection
"kube": .kubernetes.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"static": .static.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"pipe": .pipe.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"aws": .aws.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"azure": .azure.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"consul": .consul.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"awsEc2": .aws_ec2.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"failover": .gloo.solo.io.Failover
"connectionConfig": .gloo.solo.io.ConnectionConfig
"protocolSelection": .gloo.solo.io.Upstream.ClusterProtocolSelection
"useHttp2": .google.protobuf.BoolValue
"initialStreamWindowSize": .google.protobuf.UInt32Value
"initialConnectionWindowSize": .google.protobuf.UInt32Value
"maxConcurrentStreams": .google.protobuf.UInt32Value
"overrideStreamErrorOnInvalidHttpMessage": .google.protobuf.BoolValue
"httpProxyHostname": .google.protobuf.StringValue
"httpConnectSslConfig": .gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSslConfig
"httpConnectHeaders": []gloo.solo.io.HeaderValue
"ignoreHealthOnHostRemoval": .google.protobuf.BoolValue

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `namespacedStatuses` | [.core.solo.io.NamespacedStatuses](../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/status.proto.sk/#namespacedstatuses) | NamespacedStatuses indicates the validation status of this resource. NamespacedStatuses is read-only by clients, and set by gloo during validation. |
| `metadata` | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/metadata.proto.sk/#metadata) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource. |
| `discoveryMetadata` | [.gloo.solo.io.DiscoveryMetadata](../upstream.proto.sk/#discoverymetadata) | Upstreams and their configuration can be automatically by Gloo Discovery if this upstream is created or modified by Discovery, metadata about the operation will be placed here. |
| `sslConfig` | [.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSslConfig](../ssl.proto.sk/#upstreamsslconfig) | SslConfig contains the options necessary to configure envoy to originate TLS to an upstream. |
| `circuitBreakers` | [.gloo.solo.io.CircuitBreakerConfig](../circuit_breaker.proto.sk/#circuitbreakerconfig) | Circuit breakers for this upstream. if not set, the defaults ones from the Gloo settings will be used. if those are not set, [envoy's defaults](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/cluster/v3/circuit_breaker.proto#envoy-api-msg-cluster-circuitbreakers) will be used. |
| `loadBalancerConfig` | [.gloo.solo.io.LoadBalancerConfig](../load_balancer.proto.sk/#loadbalancerconfig) |  |
| `healthChecks` | [[]solo.io.envoy.api.v2.core.HealthCheck](../../external/envoy/api/v2/core/health_check.proto.sk/#healthcheck) |  |
| `outlierDetection` | [.solo.io.envoy.api.v2.cluster.OutlierDetection](../../external/envoy/api/v2/cluster/outlier_detection.proto.sk/#outlierdetection) |  |
| `kube` | [.kubernetes.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/kubernetes/kubernetes.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `aws`, `azure`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `static` | [.static.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/static/static.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `static`, `kube`, `pipe`, `aws`, `azure`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `pipe` | [.pipe.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/pipe/pipe.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `pipe`, `kube`, `static`, `aws`, `azure`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `aws` | [.aws.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/aws/aws.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `aws`, `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `azure`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `azure` | [.azure.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/azure/azure.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `azure`, `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `aws`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `consul` | [.consul.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/consul/consul.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `consul`, `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `aws`, `azure`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `awsEc2` | [.aws_ec2.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/aws/ec2/aws_ec2.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `awsEc2`, `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `aws`, `azure`, or `consul` can be set. |
| `failover` | [.gloo.solo.io.Failover](../failover.proto.sk/#failover) | Failover endpoints for this upstream. If omitted (the default) no failovers will be applied. |
| `connectionConfig` | [.gloo.solo.io.ConnectionConfig](../connection.proto.sk/#connectionconfig) | HTTP/1 connection configurations. |
| `protocolSelection` | [.gloo.solo.io.Upstream.ClusterProtocolSelection](../upstream.proto.sk/#clusterprotocolselection) | Determines how Envoy selects the protocol used to speak to upstream hosts. |
| `useHttp2` | [.google.protobuf.BoolValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/bool-value) | Use http2 when communicating with this upstream this field is evaluated `true` for upstreams with a grpc service spec. otherwise defaults to `false`. |
| `initialStreamWindowSize` | [.google.protobuf.UInt32Value](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/u-int-32-value) | (UInt32Value) Initial stream-level flow-control window size. Valid values range from 65535 (2^16 - 1, HTTP/2 default) to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1, HTTP/2 maximum) and defaults to 268435456 (256 * 1024 * 1024). NOTE: 65535 is the initial window size from HTTP/2 spec. We only support increasing the default window size now, so it’s also the minimum. This field also acts as a soft limit on the number of bytes Envoy will buffer per-stream in the HTTP/2 codec buffers. Once the buffer reaches this pointer, watermark callbacks will fire to stop the flow of data to the codec buffers. Requires UseHttp2 to be true to be acknowledged. |
| `initialConnectionWindowSize` | [.google.protobuf.UInt32Value](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/u-int-32-value) | (UInt32Value) Similar to initial_stream_window_size, but for connection-level flow-control window. Currently, this has the same minimum/maximum/default as initial_stream_window_size. Requires UseHttp2 to be true to be acknowledged. |
| `maxConcurrentStreams` | [.google.protobuf.UInt32Value](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/u-int-32-value) | (UInt32Value) Maximum concurrent streams allowed for peer on one HTTP/2 connection. Valid values range from 1 to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1) and defaults to 2147483647. Requires UseHttp2 to be true to be acknowledged. |
| `overrideStreamErrorOnInvalidHttpMessage` | [.google.protobuf.BoolValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/bool-value) | Allows invalid HTTP messaging and headers. When this option is disabled (default), then the whole HTTP/2 connection is terminated upon receiving invalid HEADERS frame. However, when this option is enabled, only the offending stream is terminated. This overrides any HCM :ref:`stream_error_on_invalid_http_messaging <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.stream_error_on_invalid_http_message>` See `RFC7540, sec. 8.1 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7540#section-8.1>`_ for details. |
| `httpProxyHostname` | [.google.protobuf.StringValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/string-value) | Tells envoy that the upstream is an HTTP proxy (e.g., another proxy in a DMZ) that supports HTTP Connect. This configuration sets the hostname used as part of the HTTP Connect request. For example, setting to: host.com:443 and making a request routed to the upstream such as `curl <envoy>:<port>/v1` would result in the following request: CONNECT host.com:443 HTTP/1.1 host: host.com:443 GET /v1 HTTP/1.1 host: <envoy>:<port> user-agent: curl/7.64.1 accept: */* Note: if setting this field to a hostname rather than IP:PORT, you may want to also set `host_rewrite` on the route. |
| `httpConnectSslConfig` | [.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSslConfig](../ssl.proto.sk/#upstreamsslconfig) | HttpConnectSslConfig contains the options necessary to configure envoy to originate TLS to an HTTP Connect proxy. If you also want to ensure the bytes proxied by the HTTP Connect proxy are encrypted, you should also specify `ssl_config`. |
| `httpConnectHeaders` | [[]gloo.solo.io.HeaderValue](../upstream.proto.sk/#headervalue) | HttpConnectHeaders specifies the headers sent with the initial HTTP Connect request. |
| `ignoreHealthOnHostRemoval` | [.google.protobuf.BoolValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/bool-value) | (bool) If set to true, Envoy will ignore the health value of a host when processing its removal from service discovery. This means that if active health checking is used, Envoy will not wait for the endpoint to go unhealthy before removing it. |




---
### ClusterProtocolSelection



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `USE_CONFIGURED_PROTOCOL` | Cluster can only operate on one of the possible upstream protocols (HTTP1.1, HTTP2). If :ref:`http2_protocol_options <envoy_v3_api_field_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.http2_protocol_options>` are present, HTTP2 will be used, otherwise HTTP1.1 will be used. |
| `USE_DOWNSTREAM_PROTOCOL` | Use HTTP1.1 or HTTP2, depending on which one is used on the downstream connection. |




---
### DiscoveryMetadata

 
created by discovery services

```yaml
"labels": map<string, string>

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `labels` | `map<string, string>` | Labels inherited from the original upstream (e.g. Kubernetes labels). |




---
### HeaderValue

 
Header name/value pair.

```yaml
"key": string
"value": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `key` | `string` | Header name. |
| `value` | `string` | Header value. |





<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->

Commit message:

Docs: LB round robin info (#7438)
* lb round robin

* md files

* Create docs-lb-roundrobin.yaml

* build

* Rename pre-commit.txt to pre-commit

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Nadine2016 <17709352+Nadine2016@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Nadine2016 <17709352+Nadine2016@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: soloio-bulldozer[bot] <48420018+soloio-bulldozer[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/content/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/upstream.proto.sk.md, after:


---
title: "upstream.proto"
weight: 5
---

<!-- Code generated by solo-kit. DO NOT EDIT. -->


### Package: `gloo.solo.io` 
#### Types:


- [Upstream](#upstream) **Top-Level Resource**
- [ClusterProtocolSelection](#clusterprotocolselection)
- [DiscoveryMetadata](#discoverymetadata)
- [HeaderValue](#headervalue)
  



##### Source File: [github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/upstream.proto](https://github.com/solo-io/gloo/blob/master/projects/gloo/api/v1/upstream.proto)





---
### Upstream

 
Upstreams represent destination for routing HTTP requests. Upstreams can be compared to
[clusters](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/cluster/v3/cluster.proto) in Envoy terminology.
Each upstream in Gloo has a type. Supported types include `static`, `kubernetes`, `aws`, `consul`, and more.
Each upstream type is handled by a corresponding Gloo plugin. (plugins currently need to be compiled into Gloo)

```yaml
"namespacedStatuses": .core.solo.io.NamespacedStatuses
"metadata": .core.solo.io.Metadata
"discoveryMetadata": .gloo.solo.io.DiscoveryMetadata
"sslConfig": .gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSslConfig
"circuitBreakers": .gloo.solo.io.CircuitBreakerConfig
"loadBalancerConfig": .gloo.solo.io.LoadBalancerConfig
"healthChecks": []solo.io.envoy.api.v2.core.HealthCheck
"outlierDetection": .solo.io.envoy.api.v2.cluster.OutlierDetection
"kube": .kubernetes.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"static": .static.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"pipe": .pipe.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"aws": .aws.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"azure": .azure.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"consul": .consul.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"awsEc2": .aws_ec2.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec
"failover": .gloo.solo.io.Failover
"connectionConfig": .gloo.solo.io.ConnectionConfig
"protocolSelection": .gloo.solo.io.Upstream.ClusterProtocolSelection
"useHttp2": .google.protobuf.BoolValue
"initialStreamWindowSize": .google.protobuf.UInt32Value
"initialConnectionWindowSize": .google.protobuf.UInt32Value
"maxConcurrentStreams": .google.protobuf.UInt32Value
"overrideStreamErrorOnInvalidHttpMessage": .google.protobuf.BoolValue
"httpProxyHostname": .google.protobuf.StringValue
"httpConnectSslConfig": .gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSslConfig
"httpConnectHeaders": []gloo.solo.io.HeaderValue
"ignoreHealthOnHostRemoval": .google.protobuf.BoolValue

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `namespacedStatuses` | [.core.solo.io.NamespacedStatuses](../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/status.proto.sk/#namespacedstatuses) | NamespacedStatuses indicates the validation status of this resource. NamespacedStatuses is read-only by clients, and set by gloo during validation. |
| `metadata` | [.core.solo.io.Metadata](../../../../../../solo-kit/api/v1/metadata.proto.sk/#metadata) | Metadata contains the object metadata for this resource. |
| `discoveryMetadata` | [.gloo.solo.io.DiscoveryMetadata](../upstream.proto.sk/#discoverymetadata) | Upstreams and their configuration can be automatically by Gloo Discovery if this upstream is created or modified by Discovery, metadata about the operation will be placed here. |
| `sslConfig` | [.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSslConfig](../ssl.proto.sk/#upstreamsslconfig) | SslConfig contains the options necessary to configure envoy to originate TLS to an upstream. |
| `circuitBreakers` | [.gloo.solo.io.CircuitBreakerConfig](../circuit_breaker.proto.sk/#circuitbreakerconfig) | Circuit breakers for this upstream. if not set, the defaults ones from the Gloo settings will be used. if those are not set, [envoy's defaults](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/cluster/v3/circuit_breaker.proto#envoy-api-msg-cluster-circuitbreakers) will be used. |
| `loadBalancerConfig` | [.gloo.solo.io.LoadBalancerConfig](../load_balancer.proto.sk/#loadbalancerconfig) | Settings for the load balancer that sends requests to the Upstream. The load balancing method is set to round robin by default. |
| `healthChecks` | [[]solo.io.envoy.api.v2.core.HealthCheck](../../external/envoy/api/v2/core/health_check.proto.sk/#healthcheck) |  |
| `outlierDetection` | [.solo.io.envoy.api.v2.cluster.OutlierDetection](../../external/envoy/api/v2/cluster/outlier_detection.proto.sk/#outlierdetection) |  |
| `kube` | [.kubernetes.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/kubernetes/kubernetes.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `aws`, `azure`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `static` | [.static.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/static/static.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `static`, `kube`, `pipe`, `aws`, `azure`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `pipe` | [.pipe.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/pipe/pipe.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `pipe`, `kube`, `static`, `aws`, `azure`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `aws` | [.aws.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/aws/aws.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `aws`, `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `azure`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `azure` | [.azure.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/azure/azure.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `azure`, `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `aws`, `consul`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `consul` | [.consul.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/consul/consul.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `consul`, `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `aws`, `azure`, or `awsEc2` can be set. |
| `awsEc2` | [.aws_ec2.options.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSpec](../options/aws/ec2/aws_ec2.proto.sk/#upstreamspec) |  Only one of `awsEc2`, `kube`, `static`, `pipe`, `aws`, `azure`, or `consul` can be set. |
| `failover` | [.gloo.solo.io.Failover](../failover.proto.sk/#failover) | Failover endpoints for this upstream. If omitted (the default) no failovers will be applied. |
| `connectionConfig` | [.gloo.solo.io.ConnectionConfig](../connection.proto.sk/#connectionconfig) | HTTP/1 connection configurations. |
| `protocolSelection` | [.gloo.solo.io.Upstream.ClusterProtocolSelection](../upstream.proto.sk/#clusterprotocolselection) | Determines how Envoy selects the protocol used to speak to upstream hosts. |
| `useHttp2` | [.google.protobuf.BoolValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/bool-value) | Use http2 when communicating with this upstream this field is evaluated `true` for upstreams with a grpc service spec. otherwise defaults to `false`. |
| `initialStreamWindowSize` | [.google.protobuf.UInt32Value](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/u-int-32-value) | (UInt32Value) Initial stream-level flow-control window size. Valid values range from 65535 (2^16 - 1, HTTP/2 default) to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1, HTTP/2 maximum) and defaults to 268435456 (256 * 1024 * 1024). NOTE: 65535 is the initial window size from HTTP/2 spec. We only support increasing the default window size now, so it’s also the minimum. This field also acts as a soft limit on the number of bytes Envoy will buffer per-stream in the HTTP/2 codec buffers. Once the buffer reaches this pointer, watermark callbacks will fire to stop the flow of data to the codec buffers. Requires UseHttp2 to be true to be acknowledged. |
| `initialConnectionWindowSize` | [.google.protobuf.UInt32Value](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/u-int-32-value) | (UInt32Value) Similar to initial_stream_window_size, but for connection-level flow-control window. Currently, this has the same minimum/maximum/default as initial_stream_window_size. Requires UseHttp2 to be true to be acknowledged. |
| `maxConcurrentStreams` | [.google.protobuf.UInt32Value](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/u-int-32-value) | (UInt32Value) Maximum concurrent streams allowed for peer on one HTTP/2 connection. Valid values range from 1 to 2147483647 (2^31 - 1) and defaults to 2147483647. Requires UseHttp2 to be true to be acknowledged. |
| `overrideStreamErrorOnInvalidHttpMessage` | [.google.protobuf.BoolValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/bool-value) | Allows invalid HTTP messaging and headers. When this option is disabled (default), then the whole HTTP/2 connection is terminated upon receiving invalid HEADERS frame. However, when this option is enabled, only the offending stream is terminated. This overrides any HCM :ref:`stream_error_on_invalid_http_messaging <envoy_v3_api_field_extensions.filters.network.http_connection_manager.v3.HttpConnectionManager.stream_error_on_invalid_http_message>` See `RFC7540, sec. 8.1 <https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7540#section-8.1>`_ for details. |
| `httpProxyHostname` | [.google.protobuf.StringValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/string-value) | Tells envoy that the upstream is an HTTP proxy (e.g., another proxy in a DMZ) that supports HTTP Connect. This configuration sets the hostname used as part of the HTTP Connect request. For example, setting to: host.com:443 and making a request routed to the upstream such as `curl <envoy>:<port>/v1` would result in the following request: CONNECT host.com:443 HTTP/1.1 host: host.com:443 GET /v1 HTTP/1.1 host: <envoy>:<port> user-agent: curl/7.64.1 accept: */* Note: if setting this field to a hostname rather than IP:PORT, you may want to also set `host_rewrite` on the route. |
| `httpConnectSslConfig` | [.gloo.solo.io.UpstreamSslConfig](../ssl.proto.sk/#upstreamsslconfig) | HttpConnectSslConfig contains the options necessary to configure envoy to originate TLS to an HTTP Connect proxy. If you also want to ensure the bytes proxied by the HTTP Connect proxy are encrypted, you should also specify `ssl_config`. |
| `httpConnectHeaders` | [[]gloo.solo.io.HeaderValue](../upstream.proto.sk/#headervalue) | HttpConnectHeaders specifies the headers sent with the initial HTTP Connect request. |
| `ignoreHealthOnHostRemoval` | [.google.protobuf.BoolValue](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/csharp/class/google/protobuf/well-known-types/bool-value) | (bool) If set to true, Envoy will ignore the health value of a host when processing its removal from service discovery. This means that if active health checking is used, Envoy will not wait for the endpoint to go unhealthy before removing it. |




---
### ClusterProtocolSelection



| Name | Description |
| ----- | ----------- | 
| `USE_CONFIGURED_PROTOCOL` | Cluster can only operate on one of the possible upstream protocols (HTTP1.1, HTTP2). If :ref:`http2_protocol_options <envoy_v3_api_field_config.cluster.v3.Cluster.http2_protocol_options>` are present, HTTP2 will be used, otherwise HTTP1.1 will be used. |
| `USE_DOWNSTREAM_PROTOCOL` | Use HTTP1.1 or HTTP2, depending on which one is used on the downstream connection. |




---
### DiscoveryMetadata

 
created by discovery services

```yaml
"labels": map<string, string>

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `labels` | `map<string, string>` | Labels inherited from the original upstream (e.g. Kubernetes labels). |




---
### HeaderValue

 
Header name/value pair.

```yaml
"key": string
"value": string

```

| Field | Type | Description |
| ----- | ---- | ----------- | 
| `key` | `string` | Header name. |
| `value` | `string` | Header value. |





<!-- Start of HubSpot Embed Code -->
<script type="text/javascript" id="hs-script-loader" async defer src="//js.hs-scripts.com/5130874.js"></script>
<!-- End of HubSpot Embed Code -->
