docs/content/guides/integrations/service_mesh/istio.md, before:

---
title: Gloo Edge and Istio
menuTitle: Configure your Gloo Edge gateway to run an Istio sidecar 
weight: 1
---

You can configure your Gloo Edge gateway with an Istio sidecar to secure the connection between your gateway and the services in your Istio service mesh. The sidecar in your Gloo Edge gateway uses mutual TLS (mTLS) to prove its identity to the services in the mesh and vice versa.

## Before you begin

Complete the following tasks before configuring an Istio sidecar for your Gloo Edge gateway: 

1. Create or use an existing cluster that runs Kubernetes version 1.20 or later. 
2. [Install Istio in your cluster](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/). Currently, Istio version 1.11 and 1.12 are supported in Gloo Edge.
3. Set up a service mesh for your cluster. For example, you can use [Gloo Mesh Enterprise](https://docs.solo.io/gloo-mesh-enterprise/latest/getting_started/managed_kubernetes/) to configure a service mesh that is based on Envoy and Istio, and that you can span across multiple service meshes and clusters. 
4. Install an application in your mesh, such as Bookinfo. 
   ```shell
   kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
   kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
   ```
   
5. Install [Helm version 3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) on your local machine.

## Configure the Gloo Edge gateway with an Istio sidecar

Install the Gloo Edge gateway and inject it with an Istio sidecar. 

1. Add the Gloo Edge Helm repo. 
   ```shell
   helm repo add gloo https://storage.googleapis.com/solo-public-helm
   ```
   
2. Update the repo. 
   ```shell
   helm repo update
   ```
      
3. Create a `value-overrides.yaml` file with the following content. To configure your gateway with an Istio sidecar, make sure to add the `istioIntegration` section and set the `enableIstioSidecarOnGateway` option to `true`. 
   ```yaml
   global:
     istioIntegration:
       labelInstallNamespace: true
       whitelistDiscovery: true
       enableIstioSidecarOnGateway: true
   gatewayProxies:
     gatewayProxy:
       podTemplate: 
         httpPort: 8080
         httpsPort: 8443
   ```
   
4. Install or upgrade Gloo Edge. 
   {{< tabs >}} 
   {{< tab name="Install Gloo Edge">}}

   1. Create the namespace where you want to install Gloo Edge. The following command creates the `gloo` namespace.
      ```shell
      kubectl create namespace gloo-system
      ```
   
   2. Install Gloo Edge with the settings in the `value-overrides.yaml` file.  
      ```shell
      helm install gloo gloo/gloo --namespace gloo-system -f value-overrides.yaml
      ```
   {{< /tab >}}
   {{< tab name="Upgrade Gloo Edge">}}
      
   ```shell
   helm upgrade gloo gloo/gloo --namespace gloo-system -f value-overrides.yaml
   ```
   {{< /tab >}}
   {{< /tabs >}}   
5. [Verify your setup]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/gateway/kubernetes/#verify-your-installation" >}}). 
6. Label the `gloo` namespace to automatically inject an Istio sidecar to all pods that run in that namespace. 
   ```shell
   kubectl label namespaces gloo-system istio-injection=enabled
   ```
   
7. Restart the proxy gateway deployment to pick up the Envoy configuration for the Istio sidecar. 
   ```shell
   kubectl rollout restart -n gloo-system deployment gateway-proxy
   ```
   
8. Get the pods for your gateway proxy deployment. You now see a second container in each pod. 
   ```shell
   kubectl get pods -n gloo-system
   ```
    
   Example output: 
   ```
   NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   discovery-5c66ccfccb-tvr5v       1/1     Running   0          3h58m
   gateway-6f88cff479-7mx6k         1/1     Running   0          3h58m
   gateway-proxy-584974c887-km4mk   2/2     Running   0          158m
   gloo-6c8f68bd4b-rv52f            1/1     Running   0          3h58m
   ```
    
9. Describe the `gateway-proxy` pod to verify that the second container runs an Istio proxy image, such as `docker.io/istio/proxyv2:1.12.7`. 
   ```shell
   kubectl describe <gateway-pod-name> -n gloo-system
   ```

Congratuliations! You successfully configured an Istio sidecar for your Gloo Edge gateway. 

## Verify the mTLS connection 

To verify that you can connect to your app via mutual TLS (mTLS), you can install the Bookinfo app in your cluster and set up an upstream and a virtual service to route incoming requests to that app. 

1. Install the Bookinfo app in your cluster. 
   ```shell
   kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
   ```
   
   Example output: 
   ```
   service/details created
   serviceaccount/bookinfo-details created
   deployment.apps/details-v1 created
   service/ratings created
   serviceaccount/bookinfo-ratings created
   deployment.apps/ratings-v1 created
   service/reviews created
   serviceaccount/bookinfo-reviews created
   deployment.apps/reviews-v1 created
   deployment.apps/reviews-v2 created
   deployment.apps/reviews-v3 created
   service/productpage created
   serviceaccount/bookinfo-productpage created
   deployment.apps/productpage-v1 created
   ```
   
2. Create an upstream to open up a port on your Gloo Edge gateway. The following example creates the `www.example.com` host that listens for incoming requests on port 80. 
   ```yaml
   kubectl apply -f- <<EOF
   apiVersion: gloo.solo.io/v1
   kind: Upstream
   metadata:
     name: my-upstream
     namespace: gloo-system
   spec:
     static:
       hosts:
         - addr: www.example.com
           port: 8080
   EOF
   ```
   
3. Create a virtual service to set up the routing rules for your Bookinfo app. In the following example, you instruct the Gloo Edge gateway to route incoming requests on the `/productpage` path to be routed to the `productpage` service in your cluster. 
   ```yaml
   kubectl apply -f- <<EOF
   apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
   kind: VirtualService
   metadata:
     name: my-virtual-service
    namespace: gloo-system
   spec:
     virtualHost:
       domains:
         - 'www.example.com'
       routes:
       - matchers:
         - prefix: /productpage
         routeAction:
           single:
             kube:
               ref:
                 name: productpage
                 namespace: default
               port: 9080
   EOF           
   ```
   
4. Send a request to the product page. Because the Istio sidecar is injected into the Gloo Edge gateway proxy, mTLS is used to securely connect to the service in your cluster. The routing is set up correctly if you receive a 200 HTTP response code. 
   ```shell
   curl -vik -H "Host: www.example.com" "$(glooctl proxy url)/productpage" 
   ```
   
{{% notice note %}} 
If you use Gloo Mesh Enterprise for your service mesh, you can configure your Gloo Edge upstream resource to point to the Gloo Mesh `ingress-gateway`. For a request to reach the Bookinfo app in remote workload clusters, your virtual service must be configured to route traffic to the Gloo Mesh `east-west` gateway. 
{{% /notice %}}

Commit message:

doc(helm): use --create-namespace parameter instead of separated `kubectl` command

docs/content/guides/integrations/service_mesh/istio.md, after:

---
title: Gloo Edge and Istio
menuTitle: Configure your Gloo Edge gateway to run an Istio sidecar 
weight: 1
---

You can configure your Gloo Edge gateway with an Istio sidecar to secure the connection between your gateway and the services in your Istio service mesh. The sidecar in your Gloo Edge gateway uses mutual TLS (mTLS) to prove its identity to the services in the mesh and vice versa.

## Before you begin

Complete the following tasks before configuring an Istio sidecar for your Gloo Edge gateway: 

1. Create or use an existing cluster that runs Kubernetes version 1.20 or later. 
2. [Install Istio in your cluster](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/). Currently, Istio version 1.11 and 1.12 are supported in Gloo Edge.
3. Set up a service mesh for your cluster. For example, you can use [Gloo Mesh Enterprise](https://docs.solo.io/gloo-mesh-enterprise/latest/getting_started/managed_kubernetes/) to configure a service mesh that is based on Envoy and Istio, and that you can span across multiple service meshes and clusters. 
4. Install an application in your mesh, such as Bookinfo. 
   ```shell
   kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
   kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
   ```
   
5. Install [Helm version 3](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) on your local machine.

## Configure the Gloo Edge gateway with an Istio sidecar

Install the Gloo Edge gateway and inject it with an Istio sidecar. 

1. Add the Gloo Edge Helm repo. 
   ```shell
   helm repo add gloo https://storage.googleapis.com/solo-public-helm
   ```
   
2. Update the repo. 
   ```shell
   helm repo update
   ```
      
3. Create a `value-overrides.yaml` file with the following content. To configure your gateway with an Istio sidecar, make sure to add the `istioIntegration` section and set the `enableIstioSidecarOnGateway` option to `true`. 
   ```yaml
   global:
     istioIntegration:
       labelInstallNamespace: true
       whitelistDiscovery: true
       enableIstioSidecarOnGateway: true
   gatewayProxies:
     gatewayProxy:
       podTemplate: 
         httpPort: 8080
         httpsPort: 8443
   ```
   
4. Install or upgrade Gloo Edge. 
   {{< tabs >}} 
   {{< tab name="Install Gloo Edge">}}

   1. Install Gloo Edge with the settings in the `value-overrides.yaml` file. This command creates the `gloo-system` namespace and installs the Gloo Edge components into it.
      ```shell
      helm install gloo gloo/gloo --namespace gloo-system --create-namespace -f value-overrides.yaml
      ```
   {{< /tab >}}
   {{< tab name="Upgrade Gloo Edge">}}
      
   ```shell
   helm upgrade gloo gloo/gloo --namespace gloo-system -f value-overrides.yaml
   ```
   {{< /tab >}}
   {{< /tabs >}}   
5. [Verify your setup]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/gateway/kubernetes/#verify-your-installation" >}}). 
6. Label the `gloo` namespace to automatically inject an Istio sidecar to all pods that run in that namespace. 
   ```shell
   kubectl label namespaces gloo-system istio-injection=enabled
   ```
   
7. Restart the proxy gateway deployment to pick up the Envoy configuration for the Istio sidecar. 
   ```shell
   kubectl rollout restart -n gloo-system deployment gateway-proxy
   ```
   
8. Get the pods for your gateway proxy deployment. You now see a second container in each pod. 
   ```shell
   kubectl get pods -n gloo-system
   ```
    
   Example output: 
   ```
   NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   discovery-5c66ccfccb-tvr5v       1/1     Running   0          3h58m
   gateway-6f88cff479-7mx6k         1/1     Running   0          3h58m
   gateway-proxy-584974c887-km4mk   2/2     Running   0          158m
   gloo-6c8f68bd4b-rv52f            1/1     Running   0          3h58m
   ```
    
9. Describe the `gateway-proxy` pod to verify that the second container runs an Istio proxy image, such as `docker.io/istio/proxyv2:1.12.7`. 
   ```shell
   kubectl describe <gateway-pod-name> -n gloo-system
   ```

Congratuliations! You successfully configured an Istio sidecar for your Gloo Edge gateway. 

## Verify the mTLS connection 

To verify that you can connect to your app via mutual TLS (mTLS), you can install the Bookinfo app in your cluster and set up an upstream and a virtual service to route incoming requests to that app. 

1. Install the Bookinfo app in your cluster. 
   ```shell
   kubectl apply -f samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
   ```
   
   Example output: 
   ```
   service/details created
   serviceaccount/bookinfo-details created
   deployment.apps/details-v1 created
   service/ratings created
   serviceaccount/bookinfo-ratings created
   deployment.apps/ratings-v1 created
   service/reviews created
   serviceaccount/bookinfo-reviews created
   deployment.apps/reviews-v1 created
   deployment.apps/reviews-v2 created
   deployment.apps/reviews-v3 created
   service/productpage created
   serviceaccount/bookinfo-productpage created
   deployment.apps/productpage-v1 created
   ```
   
2. Create an upstream to open up a port on your Gloo Edge gateway. The following example creates the `www.example.com` host that listens for incoming requests on port 80. 
   ```yaml
   kubectl apply -f- <<EOF
   apiVersion: gloo.solo.io/v1
   kind: Upstream
   metadata:
     name: my-upstream
     namespace: gloo-system
   spec:
     static:
       hosts:
         - addr: www.example.com
           port: 8080
   EOF
   ```
   
3. Create a virtual service to set up the routing rules for your Bookinfo app. In the following example, you instruct the Gloo Edge gateway to route incoming requests on the `/productpage` path to be routed to the `productpage` service in your cluster. 
   ```yaml
   kubectl apply -f- <<EOF
   apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
   kind: VirtualService
   metadata:
     name: my-virtual-service
    namespace: gloo-system
   spec:
     virtualHost:
       domains:
         - 'www.example.com'
       routes:
       - matchers:
         - prefix: /productpage
         routeAction:
           single:
             kube:
               ref:
                 name: productpage
                 namespace: default
               port: 9080
   EOF           
   ```
   
4. Send a request to the product page. Because the Istio sidecar is injected into the Gloo Edge gateway proxy, mTLS is used to securely connect to the service in your cluster. The routing is set up correctly if you receive a 200 HTTP response code. 
   ```shell
   curl -vik -H "Host: www.example.com" "$(glooctl proxy url)/productpage" 
   ```
   
{{% notice note %}} 
If you use Gloo Mesh Enterprise for your service mesh, you can configure your Gloo Edge upstream resource to point to the Gloo Mesh `ingress-gateway`. For a request to reach the Bookinfo app in remote workload clusters, your virtual service must be configured to route traffic to the Gloo Mesh `east-west` gateway. 
{{% /notice %}}
