docs/content/guides/security/auth/extauth/oauth/_index.md, before:

---
title: OAuth
weight: 20
description: External Auth with OAuth
---

{{% notice note %}}
{{< readfile file="static/content/enterprise_only_feature_disclaimer" markdown="true">}}
{{% /notice %}}

Gloo Edge supports authentication via **OpenID Connect (OIDC)**. OIDC is an identity layer on top of the **OAuth 2.0** protocol. In OAuth 2.0 flows, authentication is performed by an external **Identity Provider** (IdP) which, in case of success, returns an **Access Token** representing the user identity. The protocol does not define the contents and structure of the Access Token, which greatly reduces the portability of OAuth 2.0 implementations.

The goal of OIDC is to address this ambiguity by additionally requiring Identity Providers to return a well-defined **ID Token**. OIDC ID tokens follow the [JSON Web Token]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/security/auth/jwt" %}}) standard and contain specific fields that your applications can expect and handle. This standardization allows you to switch between Identity Providers - or support multiple ones at the same time - with minimal, if any, changes to your downstream services; it also allows you to consistently apply additional security measures like _Role-based Access Control (RBAC)_ based on the identity of your users, i.e. the contents of their ID token (check out [this guide]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/security/auth/jwt/access_control" %}}) for an example of how to use Gloo Edge to apply RBAC policies to JWTs). 

In this guide, we will focus on the format of the Gloo Edge API for OIDC authentication.

{{% notice warning %}}
This feature requires Gloo Edge's external auth server to communicate with an external OIDC provider/authorization server.
Because of this interaction, the OIDC flow may take longer than the default timeout of 200ms.
You can increase this timeout by setting the {{% protobuf name="enterprise.gloo.solo.io.Settings" display="`requestTimeout` value on external auth settings"%}}.
The external auth settings can be configured on the {{% protobuf name="gloo.solo.io.Settings" display="global Gloo Edge `Settings` object"%}}.
{{% /notice %}}

## Configuration format
{{% notice warning %}}
{{% extauth_version_info_note %}}
{{% /notice %}}

Following is an example of an `AuthConfig` with an OIDC configuration (for more information on `AuthConfig` CRDs, see the [main page]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/security/auth/extauth/#auth-configuration-overview" >}}) 
of the authentication docs):

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=8-17" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        issuerUrl: theissuer.com
        appUrl: https://myapp.com
        authEndpoint_query_params:
          paramKey: paramValue
        callbackPath: /my/callback/path/
        clientId: myclientid
        clientSecretRef:
          name: my-oauth-secret
          namespace: gloo-system
        scopes:
        - email
{{< /highlight >}}

The `AuthConfig` consists of a single `config` of type `oauth`. Let's go through each of its attributes:

- `issuer_url`: The url of the OpenID Connect identity provider. Gloo Edge will automatically discover OpenID Connect 
configuration by querying the `.well-known/openid-configuration` endpoint on the `issuer_url`. For example, if you are 
using Google as an identity provider, Gloo Edge will expect to find OIDC discovery information at 
`https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`.
- `auth_endpoint_query_params`: A map of query parameters appended to the issuer url in the form
 `issuer_url`?`paramKey`:`paramValue`. These query parameters are sent to the [authorization endpoint](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/oauth2#oauth-endpoints)
  when Gloo Edge initiates the OIDC flow. This can be useful when integrating Gloo Edge with some identity providers that require
  custom parameters to be sent to the authorization endpoint.
- `app_url`: This is the public URL of your application. It is used in combination with the `callback_path` attribute.
- `callback_path`: The callback path relative to the `app_url`. Once a user has been authenticated, the identity provider 
will redirect them to this URL. Gloo Edge will intercept requests with this path, exchange the authorization code received from 
the Identity Provider for an ID token, place the ID token in a cookie on the request, and forward the request to its original destination. 

{{% notice note %}}
The callback path must have a matching route in the VirtualService associated with the OIDC settings. For example, you could simply have a `/` path-prefix route which would match any callback path. The important part of this callback "catch all" route is that it goes through the routing filters including external auth. Please see the examples for Google, Dex, and Okta. 
{{% /notice %}}

- `client_id`: This is the **client id** that you obtained when you registered your application with the identity provider.
- `client_secret_ref`: This is a reference to a Kubernetes secret containing the **client secret** that you obtained 
when you registered your application with the identity provider. The easiest way to create the Kubernetes secret in the 
expected format is to use `glooctl`, but you can also provide it by `kubectl apply`ing YAML to your cluster. {{% notice note %}}In Gloo Edge versions 1.10 and earlier, you must specify a secret of `type: Opaque`. Other types are not supported. To ensure that you create an `Opaque` secret, either make sure that you [`glooctl` runs version 1.10 or earlier]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/preparation/#update-glooctl" >}}) before using `glooctl create secret`, or use the `kubectl` tabs.{{% /notice %}}
{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="glooctl" codelang="shell">}}
glooctl create secret oauth --namespace gloo-system --name oidc --client-secret secretvalue
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="kubectl apply" codelang="yaml">}}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: Opaque
metadata:
  annotations:
    resource_kind: '*v1.Secret'
  name: oidc
  namespace: gloo-system
data:
  # The value is a base64 encoding of the following YAML:
  # client_secret: secretvalue
  # Gloo Edge expects OAuth client secrets in this format.
  oauth: Y2xpZW50U2VjcmV0OiBzZWNyZXR2YWx1ZQo=
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}} 
- `scopes`: scopes to request in addition to the `openid` scope.

## Cookie options

Use the cookieOptions field to customize cookie behavior:
- notSecure - Set the cookie to not secure. This is not recommended, but might be useful for demo/testing purposes.
- maxAge - The max age of the cookie in seconds.  Leave unset for a default of 30 days (2592000 seconds). To disable cookie expiry, set explicitly to 0.
- path - The path of the cookie.  If unset, it defaults to "/". Set it explicitly to "" to avoid setting a path.
- domain - The domain of the cookie.  The default value is empty and matches only the originating request.  This is fine for cases where the `VirtualService` matches the host value that is also the redirect target of the IdP.  However, this value is critical if the OAuth provider is redirecting the request to another subdomain, for example.  Consider a case where a `VirtualService` matches requests to `*.example.com` and the IdP redirects its auth requests to `subdomain.example.com`.  With default settings for `domain`, if a request comes in on `other.example.com`, the operation fails. The user is directed to the IdP login as expected but auth fails because the token-bearing cookie is not sent back to the proxy, since the request originates from a different subdomain.  However, if this `domain` property is set to `example.com`, then the operation succeeds because the cookie is sent to any subdomain of `example.com`.

Example configuration:

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=19-22" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc-dex
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        appUrl: http://localhost:8080/
        callbackPath: /callback
        clientId: gloo
        clientSecretRef:
          name: oauth
          namespace: gloo-system
        issuerUrl: http://dex.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:32000/
        scopes:
        - email
        session:
          cookieOptions:
            notSecure: true
            maxAge: 3600
{{< /highlight >}}
## Logout URL

Gloo also supports specifying a logout url. When specified, accessing this url will
trigger a deletion of the user session, with an empty 200 OK response returned.

Example configuration:

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=19" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc-dex
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        appUrl: http://localhost:8080/
        callbackPath: /callback
        clientId: gloo
        clientSecretRef:
          name: oauth
          namespace: gloo-system
        issuerUrl: http://dex.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:32000/
        scopes:
        - email
        logoutPath: /logout
{{< /highlight >}}

When this url is accessed, the user session and cookie will be deleted.

## Sessions in Redis

By default, the tokens will be saved in a secure client side cookie.
Gloo can instead use Redis to save the OIDC tokens, and set a randomly generated session id in the user's cookie.

Example configuration:

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=19-25" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc-dex
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        appUrl: http://localhost:8080/
        callbackPath: /callback
        clientId: gloo
        clientSecretRef:
          name: oauth
          namespace: gloo-system
        issuerUrl: http://dex.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:32000/
        scopes:
        - email
        session:
          failOnFetchFailure: true
          redis:
            cookieName: session
            options:
              host: redis.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:6379
{{< /highlight >}}

## Forwarding the ID token upstream

You can configure gloo to forward the id token to the upstream on successful authentication. To do that,
set the headers section in the configuration.

Example configuration:

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=19-21" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc-dex
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        appUrl: http://localhost:8080/
        callbackPath: /callback
        clientId: gloo
        clientSecretRef:
          name: oauth
          namespace: gloo-system
        issuerUrl: http://dex.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:32000/
        scopes:
        - email
        headers:
          idTokenHeader: "x-token"
{{< /highlight >}}

## Examples
We have seen how a sample OIDC `AuthConfig` is structured. For complete examples of how to set up an OIDC flow with 
Gloo Edge, check out the following guides:

{{% children description="true" %}}

Commit message:

Call revocation endpoint on logout OIDC v1.11.x (#6545)
* OIDC - Call revocation endpoint on logout (#6498)

* Update oauth docs

* Change refresh to access wording

* Add a warning notice that access token may not be deleted

* Docs updates

* Add revocation_endpoint in discovery override

* Add changelog

* Update docs to add revocation endpoint info

* Update changelog type

* Update docs/content/guides/security/auth/extauth/oauth/_index.md

Co-authored-by: Nadine2016 <17709352+Nadine2016@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update docs/content/guides/security/auth/extauth/oauth/_index.md

Co-authored-by: Nadine2016 <17709352+Nadine2016@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: soloio-bulldozer[bot] <48420018+soloio-bulldozer[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Nadine2016 <17709352+Nadine2016@users.noreply.github.com>

* Cherry pick + changelog

Co-authored-by: soloio-bulldozer[bot] <48420018+soloio-bulldozer[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Nadine2016 <17709352+Nadine2016@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/content/guides/security/auth/extauth/oauth/_index.md, after:

---
title: OAuth
weight: 20
description: External Auth with OAuth
---

{{% notice note %}}
{{< readfile file="static/content/enterprise_only_feature_disclaimer" markdown="true">}}
{{% /notice %}}

Gloo Edge supports authentication via **OpenID Connect (OIDC)**. OIDC is an identity layer on top of the **OAuth 2.0** protocol. In OAuth 2.0 flows, authentication is performed by an external **Identity Provider** (IdP) which, in case of success, returns an **Access Token** representing the user identity. The protocol does not define the contents and structure of the Access Token, which greatly reduces the portability of OAuth 2.0 implementations.

The goal of OIDC is to address this ambiguity by additionally requiring Identity Providers to return a well-defined **ID Token**. OIDC ID tokens follow the [JSON Web Token]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/security/auth/jwt" %}}) standard and contain specific fields that your applications can expect and handle. This standardization allows you to switch between Identity Providers - or support multiple ones at the same time - with minimal, if any, changes to your downstream services; it also allows you to consistently apply additional security measures like _Role-based Access Control (RBAC)_ based on the identity of your users, i.e. the contents of their ID token (check out [this guide]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/security/auth/jwt/access_control" %}}) for an example of how to use Gloo Edge to apply RBAC policies to JWTs). 

In this guide, we will focus on the format of the Gloo Edge API for OIDC authentication.

{{% notice warning %}}
This feature requires Gloo Edge's external auth server to communicate with an external OIDC provider/authorization server.
Because of this interaction, the OIDC flow may take longer than the default timeout of 200ms.
You can increase this timeout by setting the {{% protobuf name="enterprise.gloo.solo.io.Settings" display="`requestTimeout` value on external auth settings"%}}.
The external auth settings can be configured on the {{% protobuf name="gloo.solo.io.Settings" display="global Gloo Edge `Settings` object"%}}.
{{% /notice %}}

## Configuration format
{{% notice warning %}}
{{% extauth_version_info_note %}}
{{% /notice %}}

Following is an example of an `AuthConfig` with an OIDC configuration (for more information on `AuthConfig` CRDs, see the [main page]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/security/auth/extauth/#auth-configuration-overview" >}}) 
of the authentication docs):

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=8-17" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        issuerUrl: theissuer.com
        appUrl: https://myapp.com
        authEndpoint_query_params:
          paramKey: paramValue
        callbackPath: /my/callback/path/
        clientId: myclientid
        clientSecretRef:
          name: my-oauth-secret
          namespace: gloo-system
        scopes:
        - email
{{< /highlight >}}

The `AuthConfig` consists of a single `config` of type `oauth`. Let's go through each of its attributes:

- `issuer_url`: The url of the OpenID Connect identity provider. Gloo Edge will automatically discover OpenID Connect 
configuration by querying the `.well-known/openid-configuration` endpoint on the `issuer_url`. For example, if you are 
using Google as an identity provider, Gloo Edge will expect to find OIDC discovery information at 
`https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`.
- `auth_endpoint_query_params`: A map of query parameters appended to the issuer url in the form
 `issuer_url`?`paramKey`:`paramValue`. These query parameters are sent to the [authorization endpoint](https://auth0.com/docs/protocols/oauth2#oauth-endpoints)
  when Gloo Edge initiates the OIDC flow. This can be useful when integrating Gloo Edge with some identity providers that require
  custom parameters to be sent to the authorization endpoint.
- `app_url`: This is the public URL of your application. It is used in combination with the `callback_path` attribute.
- `callback_path`: The callback path relative to the `app_url`. Once a user has been authenticated, the identity provider 
will redirect them to this URL. Gloo Edge will intercept requests with this path, exchange the authorization code received from 
the Identity Provider for an ID token, place the ID token in a cookie on the request, and forward the request to its original destination. 

{{% notice note %}}
The callback path must have a matching route in the VirtualService associated with the OIDC settings. For example, you could simply have a `/` path-prefix route which would match any callback path. The important part of this callback "catch all" route is that it goes through the routing filters including external auth. Please see the examples for Google, Dex, and Okta. 
{{% /notice %}}

- `client_id`: This is the **client id** that you obtained when you registered your application with the identity provider.
- `client_secret_ref`: This is a reference to a Kubernetes secret containing the **client secret** that you obtained 
when you registered your application with the identity provider. The easiest way to create the Kubernetes secret in the 
expected format is to use `glooctl`, but you can also provide it by `kubectl apply`ing YAML to your cluster. {{% notice note %}}In Gloo Edge versions 1.10 and earlier, you must specify a secret of `type: Opaque`. Other types are not supported. To ensure that you create an `Opaque` secret, either make sure that you [`glooctl` runs version 1.10 or earlier]({{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/installation/preparation/#update-glooctl" >}}) before using `glooctl create secret`, or use the `kubectl` tabs.{{% /notice %}}
{{< tabs >}}
{{< tab name="glooctl" codelang="shell">}}
glooctl create secret oauth --namespace gloo-system --name oidc --client-secret secretvalue
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="kubectl apply" codelang="yaml">}}
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: Opaque
metadata:
  annotations:
    resource_kind: '*v1.Secret'
  name: oidc
  namespace: gloo-system
data:
  # The value is a base64 encoding of the following YAML:
  # client_secret: secretvalue
  # Gloo Edge expects OAuth client secrets in this format.
  oauth: Y2xpZW50U2VjcmV0OiBzZWNyZXR2YWx1ZQo=
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}} 
- `scopes`: scopes to request in addition to the `openid` scope.

## Cookie options

Use the cookieOptions field to customize cookie behavior:
- notSecure - Set the cookie to not secure. This is not recommended, but might be useful for demo/testing purposes.
- maxAge - The max age of the cookie in seconds.  Leave unset for a default of 30 days (2592000 seconds). To disable cookie expiry, set explicitly to 0.
- path - The path of the cookie.  If unset, it defaults to "/". Set it explicitly to "" to avoid setting a path.
- domain - The domain of the cookie.  The default value is empty and matches only the originating request.  This is fine for cases where the `VirtualService` matches the host value that is also the redirect target of the IdP.  However, this value is critical if the OAuth provider is redirecting the request to another subdomain, for example.  Consider a case where a `VirtualService` matches requests to `*.example.com` and the IdP redirects its auth requests to `subdomain.example.com`.  With default settings for `domain`, if a request comes in on `other.example.com`, the operation fails. The user is directed to the IdP login as expected but auth fails because the token-bearing cookie is not sent back to the proxy, since the request originates from a different subdomain.  However, if this `domain` property is set to `example.com`, then the operation succeeds because the cookie is sent to any subdomain of `example.com`.

Example configuration:

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=19-22" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc-dex
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        appUrl: http://localhost:8080/
        callbackPath: /callback
        clientId: gloo
        clientSecretRef:
          name: oauth
          namespace: gloo-system
        issuerUrl: http://dex.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:32000/
        scopes:
        - email
        session:
          cookieOptions:
            notSecure: true
            maxAge: 3600
{{< /highlight >}}
## Logout URL

Gloo also supports specifying a logout url. When specified, accessing this url will
trigger a deletion of the user session and revoke the user's access token. This action returns with an empty 200 HTTP response.

Example configuration:

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=19" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc-dex
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        appUrl: http://localhost:8080/
        callbackPath: /callback
        clientId: gloo
        clientSecretRef:
          name: oauth
          namespace: gloo-system
        issuerUrl: http://dex.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:32000/
        scopes:
        - email
        logoutPath: /logout
{{< /highlight >}}

When this URL is accessed, the user session and cookie are deleted. 
The access token on the server is also revoked based on the discovered revocation endpoint. 
You can also override the revocation endpoint through the [DiscoveryOverride field]{{< versioned_link_path fromRoot="/reference/api/github.com/solo-io/gloo/projects/gloo/api/v1/enterprise/options/extauth/v1/extauth.proto.sk/#discoveryoverride" >}}) in `AuthConfig`.

{{% notice warning %}}
Gloo currently does not retry to revoke an access token if there is a service error with the authorization server.
{{% /notice %}}

## Sessions in Redis

By default, the tokens will be saved in a secure client side cookie.
Gloo can instead use Redis to save the OIDC tokens, and set a randomly generated session id in the user's cookie.

Example configuration:

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=19-25" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc-dex
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        appUrl: http://localhost:8080/
        callbackPath: /callback
        clientId: gloo
        clientSecretRef:
          name: oauth
          namespace: gloo-system
        issuerUrl: http://dex.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:32000/
        scopes:
        - email
        session:
          failOnFetchFailure: true
          redis:
            cookieName: session
            options:
              host: redis.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:6379
{{< /highlight >}}

## Forwarding the ID token upstream

You can configure gloo to forward the id token to the upstream on successful authentication. To do that,
set the headers section in the configuration.

Example configuration:

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=19-21" >}}
apiVersion: enterprise.gloo.solo.io/v1
kind: AuthConfig
metadata:
  name: oidc-dex
  namespace: gloo-system
spec:
  configs:
  - oauth2:
      oidcAuthorizationCode:
        appUrl: http://localhost:8080/
        callbackPath: /callback
        clientId: gloo
        clientSecretRef:
          name: oauth
          namespace: gloo-system
        issuerUrl: http://dex.gloo-system.svc.cluster.local:32000/
        scopes:
        - email
        headers:
          idTokenHeader: "x-token"
{{< /highlight >}}

## Examples
We have seen how a sample OIDC `AuthConfig` is structured. For complete examples of how to set up an OIDC flow with 
Gloo Edge, check out the following guides:

{{% children description="true" %}}
