docs/content/guides/traffic_management/request_processing/append_remove_headers/_index.md, before:

---
title: Appending and Removing Request/Response Headers
menuTitle: Header Control
weight: 70
description: Append and Remove Headers from Requests and Responses using Route configuration.
---

Gloo Edge can add and remove headers to/from requests and responses. We refer to this feature as "Header Manipulation".

Header Manipulation is configured via the 
{{< protobuf name="headers.options.gloo.solo.io.HeaderManipulation" display="headerManipulation">}} struct.

This struct can be added to {{< protobuf name="gloo.solo.io.RouteOptions" display="Route Options">}}, {{< protobuf name="gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostOptions" display="Virtual Host Options">}}, and {{< protobuf name="gloo.solo.io.WeightedDestinationOptions" display="Weighted Destination Options" >}}.

The `headerManipulation` struct contains four optional fields: `requestHeadersToAdd`, `requestHeadersToRemove`, `responseHeadersToAdd`, and `responseHeadersToRemove`. You can specify the key and value for the header directly in the manifest, or for `requestHeadersToAdd`, you can reference a secret of the type `gloo.solo.io/header` or `Opaque`.

```yaml
headerManipulation:

  # add headers to request
  requestHeadersToAdd:
  - header:
      key: HEADER_NAME
      value: HEADER_VALUE
    # if the header HEADER_NAME is already present,
    # append the value.
    append: true
  - header:
      key: HEADER_NAME
      value: HEADER_VALUE
    # if the header HEADER_NAME is already present,
    # overwrite the value.
    append: false
  - headerSecretRef:
      name: SECRET_NAME
      namespace: SECRET_NAMESPACE
    # The type of the secret must be gloo.solo.io/header or Opaque.
    # Each key/value pair in the secret is added to the header.
    # NOTE: Referencing a secret in a different namespace than the
    # upstream is not recommended. Instead, ensure secrets are in the
    # same namespace as the upstream.

  # remove headers from request
  requestHeadersToRemove:
  - "HEADER_NAME"
  - "HEADER_NAME"

  # add headers to response
  responseHeadersToAdd:
  - header:
      key: HEADER_NAME
      value: HEADER_VALUE
    # if the header HEADER_NAME is already present,
    # append the value.
    append: true
  - header:
      key: HEADER_NAME
      value: HEADER_VALUE
    # if the header HEADER_NAME is already present,
    # overwrite the value.
    append: false

  # remove headers from response
  responseHeadersToRemove:
  - "HEADER_NAME"
  - "HEADER_NAME"
  

```

Depending on where the `headerManipulation` struct is added, the header manipulation will be applied on that level.

* When using `headerManipulation` in route `options`,
headers will be manipulated for all traffic matching that route.

* When using `headerManipulation` in virtual host `options`,
headers will be manipulated for all traffic handled by the virtual host.

* When using `headerManipulation` in weighted destination `options`,
headers will be manipulated for all traffic that is sent to the specific destination when it is selected for load balancing.

Envoy supports adding dynamic values to request and response headers. The percent symbol (%) is used to 
delimit variable names. See a list of the dynamic variables supported by Envoy in the [envoy docs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#custom-request-response-headers).

If you would like to use the `headerSecretRef` with `requestHeadersToAdd`, you can create the correct Secret type by using `glooctl`. For example, the following command will create a secret named `my-headers`:

```bash
glooctl create secret header my-headers --headers x-header-1=one,x-header-2=two
```

The secret will be created in the same namespace as the Gloo Edge installation by default. Inspecting the secret will show that the type is set to `gloo.solo.io/header`. Each key/value pair in the secret will be added as a header to the request.

{{% notice note %}}
Referencing a secret in a different namespace than the upstream is not recommended. Instead, ensure secrets are in the same namespace as the upstream. You can additionally set the `gloo.headerSecretRefNsMatchesUs` Helm field to true, which requires any secrets that are sent in headers to come from the same namespace as the destination upstream.
{{% /notice %}}

## Example: Manipulating Headers on a Route


{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=24-30" >}}
apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: 'default'
  namespace: 'gloo-system'
spec:
  virtualHost:
    domains:
    - '*'
    routes:
    - matchers:
       - prefix: '/petstore'
      routeAction:
        single:
          upstream:
            name: 'default-petstore-8080'
            namespace: 'gloo-system'
      options:
        prefixRewrite: '/api/pets'
        headerManipulation:
          # add headers to all responses 
          # returned by this route
          responseHeadersToAdd:
          - header:
              key: HEADER_NAME
              value: HEADER_VALUE
          - headerSecretRef
              name: my-headers
              namespace: gloo-system
status: {}
{{< /highlight >}}


## Example: Manipulating Headers on a VirtualHost

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=22-27" >}}
apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: 'default'
  namespace: 'gloo-system'
spec:
  virtualHost:
    domains:
    - '*'
    routes:
    - matchers:
       - prefix: '/petstore'
      routeAction:
        single:
          upstream:
            name: 'default-petstore-8080'
            namespace: 'gloo-system'
      options:
        prefixRewrite: '/api/pets'
    options:
      headerManipulation:
        # remove headers from all requests 
        # handled by this virtual host
        requestHeadersToRemove:
        - "x-my-header"
        - "x-your-header"
status: {}
{{< /highlight >}}



## Example: Manipulating Headers on a Weighted Destination

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=28-35" >}}
apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: 'default'
  namespace: 'gloo-system'
spec:
  virtualHost:
    domains:
    - '*'
    routes:
    - matchers:
       - prefix: /myservice
      routeAction:
        multi:
          destinations:
          - weight: 9
            destination:
              upstream:
                name: default-myservice-v1-8080
                namespace: gloo-system
          - weight: 1
            destination:
              upstream:
                name: default-myservice-v2-8080
                namespace: gloo-system
            options:
              headerManipulation:
                # add headers to all requests
                # that are load balanced to `default-myservice-v2-8080`
                # on this route 
                requestHeadersToAdd:
                - header:
                    key: HEADER_NAME
                    value: HEADER_VALUE
status: {}
{{< /highlight >}}

## Inheritance of request headers {#inheritance}

Headers can be inherited by children options, such as shown in the following example with delegated routes. For more information about inheritance, see [Inheritance rules]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/introduction/traffic_filter/" %}}). For more information about delegation, see [Delegating with route tables]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/destination_types/delegation/" %}}).

1. In your Virtual Service, set up a delegated route.
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
   kind: VirtualService
   metadata:
     name: 'example'
     namespace: 'gloo-system'
   spec:
     virtualHost:
       domains:
       - 'example.com'
       routes:
       - matchers:
          - prefix: '/a' # delegate ownership of routes for `example.com/a`
         delegateAction:
           ref:
             name: 'a-routes'
             namespace: 'a'
       - matchers:
          - prefix: '/b' # delegate ownership of routes for `example.com/b`
         delegateAction:
           ref:
             name: 'b-routes'
             namespace: 'b'
   ```
2. Add headers that you want all child objects to inherit in the VirtualHost parent object in the same VirtualService as the previous step. In the following example, the `x-gateway-start-time` header is added to requests, and the `x-route-table: alphabet` header is added to responses.
   ```yaml
   ...
   virtualHost:
     options:
       headerManipulation:
         requestHeadersToAdd:
           - header:
               key: x-gateway-start-time
               value: '%START_TIME%'
         responseHeadersToAdd:
           - header:
               key: x-route-table
               value: alphabet
   ```
3. In the RouteTable child object, define other headers. In the following example, the `x-route-table` header is added to requests, and the `x-route-table: a` header is added to responses.
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
   kind: RouteTable
   metadata:
     name: 'a-routes'
     namespace: 'a'
   spec:
     routes:
       - matchers:
           # the path matchers in this RouteTable must begin with the prefix `/a/`
          - prefix: '/a/1'
         routeAction:
           single:
             upstream:
               name: 'foo-upstream'
     options:
       headerManipulation:
         requestHeadersToAdd:
           - header:
               key: x-route-table
               value: a
         responseHeadersToAdd:
           - header:
               key: x-route-table
               value: a
   ```
4. Now, requests that match the route `/a/1` get the following headers:
   * The `x-gateway-start-time` request header is inherited from the parent VirtualHost option.
   * The `x-route-table` request header is set in the child Route option.
   * The `x-route-table` response header in the child overwrites the parent object's value of `alphabet` instead to `a`, because child objects take precedence in case of conflict.

Commit message:

add extra informatnion on header append/removal docs

docs/content/guides/traffic_management/request_processing/append_remove_headers/_index.md, after:

---
title: Appending and Removing Request/Response Headers
menuTitle: Header Control
weight: 70
description: Append and Remove Headers from Requests and Responses using Route configuration.
---

Gloo Edge can add and remove headers to/from requests and responses. We refer to this feature as "Header Manipulation".

Header Manipulation is configured via the 
{{< protobuf name="headers.options.gloo.solo.io.HeaderManipulation" display="headerManipulation">}} struct.

This struct can be added to {{< protobuf name="gloo.solo.io.RouteOptions" display="Route Options">}}, {{< protobuf name="gloo.solo.io.VirtualHostOptions" display="Virtual Host Options">}}, and {{< protobuf name="gloo.solo.io.WeightedDestinationOptions" display="Weighted Destination Options" >}}.

The `headerManipulation` struct contains four optional fields: `requestHeadersToAdd`, `requestHeadersToRemove`, `responseHeadersToAdd`, and `responseHeadersToRemove`. You can specify the key and value for the header directly in the manifest, or for `requestHeadersToAdd`, you can reference a secret of the type `gloo.solo.io/header` or `Opaque`.

```yaml
headerManipulation:

  # add headers to request
  requestHeadersToAdd:
  - header:
      key: HEADER_NAME
      value: HEADER_VALUE
    # if the header HEADER_NAME is already present,
    # append the value.
    append: true
  - header:
      key: HEADER_NAME
      value: HEADER_VALUE
    # if the header HEADER_NAME is already present,
    # overwrite the value.
    append: false
  - headerSecretRef:
      name: SECRET_NAME
      namespace: SECRET_NAMESPACE
    # The type of the secret must be gloo.solo.io/header or Opaque.
    # Each key/value pair in the secret is added to the header.
    # NOTE: Referencing a secret in a different namespace than the
    # upstream is not recommended. Instead, ensure secrets are in the
    # same namespace as the upstream.

  # remove headers from request
  requestHeadersToRemove:
  - "HEADER_NAME"
  - "HEADER_NAME"

  # add headers to response
  responseHeadersToAdd:
  - header:
      key: HEADER_NAME
      value: HEADER_VALUE
    # if the header HEADER_NAME is already present,
    # append the value.
    append: true
  - header:
      key: HEADER_NAME
      value: HEADER_VALUE
    # if the header HEADER_NAME is already present,
    # overwrite the value.
    append: false

  # remove headers from response
  responseHeadersToRemove:
  - "HEADER_NAME"
  - "HEADER_NAME"
  

```

Depending on where the `headerManipulation` struct is added, the header manipulation will be applied on that level.

* When using `headerManipulation` in route `options`,
headers will be manipulated for all traffic matching that route.

* When using `headerManipulation` in virtual host `options`,
headers will be manipulated for all traffic handled by the virtual host.

* When using `headerManipulation` in weighted destination `options`,
headers will be manipulated for all traffic that is sent to the specific destination when it is selected for load balancing.

Envoy supports adding dynamic values to request and response headers. The percent symbol (%) is used to 
delimit variable names. See a list of the dynamic variables supported by Envoy in the [envoy docs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#custom-request-response-headers).

If you would like to use the `headerSecretRef` with `requestHeadersToAdd`, you can create the correct Secret type by using `glooctl`. For example, the following command will create a secret named `my-headers`:

```bash
glooctl create secret header my-headers --headers x-header-1=one,x-header-2=two
```

The secret will be created in the same namespace as the Gloo Edge installation by default. Inspecting the secret will show that the type is set to `gloo.solo.io/header`. Each key/value pair in the secret will be added as a header to the request.

{{% notice note %}}
Referencing a secret in a different namespace than the upstream is not recommended. Instead, ensure secrets are in the same namespace as the upstream. You can additionally set the `gloo.headerSecretRefNsMatchesUs` Helm field to true, which requires any secrets that are sent in headers to come from the same namespace as the destination upstream.
{{% /notice %}}

## Example: Manipulating Headers on a Route


{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=24-30" >}}
apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: 'default'
  namespace: 'gloo-system'
spec:
  virtualHost:
    domains:
    - '*'
    routes:
    - matchers:
       - prefix: '/petstore'
      routeAction:
        single:
          upstream:
            name: 'default-petstore-8080'
            namespace: 'gloo-system'
      options:
        prefixRewrite: '/api/pets'
        headerManipulation:
          # add headers to all responses 
          # returned by this route
          responseHeadersToAdd:
          - header:
              key: HEADER_NAME
              value: HEADER_VALUE
          - headerSecretRef
              name: my-headers
              namespace: gloo-system
status: {}
{{< /highlight >}}


## Example: Manipulating Headers on a VirtualHost

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=22-27" >}}
apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: 'default'
  namespace: 'gloo-system'
spec:
  virtualHost:
    domains:
    - '*'
    routes:
    - matchers:
       - prefix: '/petstore'
      routeAction:
        single:
          upstream:
            name: 'default-petstore-8080'
            namespace: 'gloo-system'
      options:
        prefixRewrite: '/api/pets'
    options:
      headerManipulation:
        # remove headers from all requests 
        # handled by this virtual host
        requestHeadersToRemove:
        - "x-my-header"
        - "x-your-header"
status: {}
{{< /highlight >}}



## Example: Manipulating Headers on a Weighted Destination

{{< highlight yaml "hl_lines=28-35" >}}
apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: null
  name: 'default'
  namespace: 'gloo-system'
spec:
  virtualHost:
    domains:
    - '*'
    routes:
    - matchers:
       - prefix: /myservice
      routeAction:
        multi:
          destinations:
          - weight: 9
            destination:
              upstream:
                name: default-myservice-v1-8080
                namespace: gloo-system
          - weight: 1
            destination:
              upstream:
                name: default-myservice-v2-8080
                namespace: gloo-system
            options:
              headerManipulation:
                # add headers to all requests
                # that are load balanced to `default-myservice-v2-8080`
                # on this route 
                requestHeadersToAdd:
                - header:
                    key: HEADER_NAME
                    value: HEADER_VALUE
status: {}
{{< /highlight >}}

## Inheritance of request headers {#inheritance}

Headers can be inherited by children options, such as shown in the following example with delegated routes. For more information about inheritance, see [Inheritance rules]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/introduction/traffic_filter/" %}}). For more information about delegation, see [Delegating with route tables]({{% versioned_link_path fromRoot="/guides/traffic_management/destination_types/delegation/" %}}).

1. In your Virtual Service, set up a delegated route.
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
   kind: VirtualService
   metadata:
     name: 'example'
     namespace: 'gloo-system'
   spec:
     virtualHost:
       domains:
       - 'example.com'
       routes:
       - matchers:
          - prefix: '/a' # delegate ownership of routes for `example.com/a`
         delegateAction:
           ref:
             name: 'a-routes'
             namespace: 'a'
       - matchers:
          - prefix: '/b' # delegate ownership of routes for `example.com/b`
         delegateAction:
           ref:
             name: 'b-routes'
             namespace: 'b'
   ```
2. Add headers that you want all child objects to inherit in the VirtualHost parent object in the same VirtualService as the previous step. In the following example, the `x-gateway-start-time` header is added to requests, and the `x-route-table: alphabet` header is added to responses.
   ```yaml
   ...
   virtualHost:
     options:
       headerManipulation:
         requestHeadersToAdd:
           - header:
               key: x-gateway-start-time
               value: '%START_TIME%'
         responseHeadersToAdd:
           - header:
               key: x-route-table
               value: alphabet
             append: false # overwrite the value of `x-route-table` if it already exists
   ```
3. In the RouteTable child object, define other headers. In the following example, the `x-route-table` header is added to requests, and the `x-route-table: a` header is added to responses.
   ```yaml
   apiVersion: gateway.solo.io/v1
   kind: RouteTable
   metadata:
     name: 'a-routes'
     namespace: 'a'
   spec:
     routes:
       - matchers:
           # the path matchers in this RouteTable must begin with the prefix `/a/`
          - prefix: '/a/1'
         routeAction:
           single:
             upstream:
               name: 'foo-upstream'
     options:
       headerManipulation:
         requestHeadersToAdd:
           - header:
               key: x-route-table
               value: a
         responseHeadersToAdd:
           - header:
               key: x-route-table
               value: a
   ```
4. Now, requests that match the route `/a/1` get the following headers:
   * The `x-gateway-start-time` request header is inherited from the parent VirtualHost option.
   * The `x-route-table` request header is set in the child Route option.
   * The `x-route-table` response header in the parent overwrites the child object's value of `a` instead to `alphabet`, because child objects take precedence in case of conflict.

Due to how header manipulations are processed, less specific headers overwrite more specific headers.

From the [Envoy docs](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/configuration/http/http_conn_man/headers#custom-request-response-headers):
> Headers are appended to requests/responses in the following order: weighted cluster level headers, route level headers, virtual host level headers and finally global level headers.

In our above example with `x-route-table`, since the virtual host level header is evaluated after the route level header, the virtual host level header overwrites the route level header.
If we had set `append: true` on the virtual host, or removed it, then the route level header would have been appended to the virtual host level header.
If we had set `append: false` on the route, since the route is evaluated before the virtual host, it would not affect the virtual host.
